# Zechariah 2

## The Man's Task
¶[Zech 2:1] (2:5 ) I looked again, and there was a man with a measuring line in his hand.
[Zech 2:2] I asked, “Where are you going?” He replied, “To measure Jerusalem in order to determine its width and its length.”

## Intercession for Israel
¶[Zech 2:3] At this point the angelic messenger who spoke to me went out, and another messenger came to meet him
[Zech 2:4] and said to him, “Hurry, speak to this young man as follows: ‘Jerusalem will no longer be enclosed by walls because of the multitude of people and animals there.
[Zech 2:5] But I (the Lord says) will be a wall of fire surrounding Jerusalem and the source of glory in her midst.’”

## A Call to Return and Rejoice
¶[Zech 2:6] “You there! Flee from the northland!” says the Lord, “for like the four winds of heaven I have scattered you,” says the Lord.
[Zech 2:7] “Escape, Zion, you who live among the Babylonians!”
[Zech 2:8] For the Lord of Heaven’s Armies says to me that for his own glory he has sent me to the nations that plundered you – for anyone who touches you touches the pupil of his eye.
[Zech 2:9] “Yes, look here, I am about to punish them so that they will be looted by their own slaves.” Then you will know that the Lord of Heaven’s Armies has sent me.
[Zech 2:10] “Sing out and be happy, Zion my daughter! For look, I have come; I will settle in your midst,” says the Lord.
[Zech 2:11] “Many nations will join themselves to the Lord on the day of salvation, and they will also be my people. Indeed, I will settle in the midst of you all.” Then you will know that the Lord of Heaven’s Armies has sent me to you.
[Zech 2:12] The Lord will take possession of Judah as his portion in the holy land and he will choose Jerusalem once again.
[Zech 2:13] Be silent in the Lord’s presence, all people everywhere, for he is being moved to action in his holy dwelling place.
