# Zechariah 3

## Accusation and Cleansing
¶[Zech 3:1] Next I saw Joshua the high priest standing before the angel of the Lord, with Satan standing at his right hand to accuse him.
[Zech 3:2] The Lord said to Satan, “May the Lord rebuke you, Satan! May the Lord, who has chosen Jerusalem, rebuke you! Isn’t this man like a burning stick snatched from the fire?”
[Zech 3:3] Now Joshua was dressed in filthy clothes as he stood there before the angel.
[Zech 3:4] The angel spoke up to those standing all around, “Remove his filthy clothes.” Then he said to Joshua , “I have freely forgiven your iniquity and will dress you in fine clothing.”
[Zech 3:5] Then I spoke up, “Let a clean turban be put on his head.” So they put a clean turban on his head and clothed him, while the angel of the Lord stood nearby.

## The Charge and Prophecy
¶[Zech 3:6] Then the angel of the Lord exhorted Joshua solemnly:
[Zech 3:7] “The Lord of Heaven’s Armies says, ‘If you follow my ways and keep my requirements, you will be able to preside over my temple and attend to my courtyards, and I will allow you to come and go among these others who are standing by you.
[Zech 3:8] Listen now, Joshua the high priest, both you and your colleagues who are sitting before you, all of you are a symbol that I am about to introduce my servant, the Branch.
[Zech 3:9] As for the stone I have set before Joshua – on the one stone there are seven eyes. I am about to engrave an inscription on it,’ says the Lord of Heaven’s Armies, ‘to the effect that I will remove the iniquity of this land in a single day.
[Zech 3:10] In that day,’ says the Lord of Heaven’s Armies, ‘everyone will invite his friend to fellowship under his vine and under his fig tree.’”
