# Zechariah 14

## The Day of the Lord
¶[Zech 14:1] A day of the Lord is about to come when your possessions will be divided as plunder in your midst.
[Zech 14:2] For I will gather all the nations against Jerusalem to wage war; the city will be taken, its houses plundered, and the women raped. Then half of the city will go into exile, but the remainder of the people will not be taken away.
[Zech 14:3] Then the Lord will go to battle and fight against those nations, just as he fought battles in ancient days.
[Zech 14:4] On that day his feet will stand on the Mount of Olives which lies to the east of Jerusalem, and the Mount of Olives will be split in half from east to west, leaving a great valley. Half the mountain will move northward and the other half southward.
[Zech 14:5] Then you will escape through my mountain valley, for the valley of the mountains will extend to Azal. Indeed, you will flee as you fled from the earthquake in the days of King Uzziah of Judah. Then the Lord my God will come with all his holy ones with him.
[Zech 14:6] On that day there will be no light – the sources of light in the heavens will congeal.
[Zech 14:7] It will happen in one day (a day known to the Lord); not in the day or the night, but in the evening there will be light.
[Zech 14:8] Moreover, on that day living waters will flow out from Jerusalem, half of them to the eastern sea and half of them to the western sea; it will happen both in summer and in winter.

¶[Zech 14:9] The Lord will then be king over all the earth. In that day the Lord will be seen as one with a single name.
[Zech 14:10] All the land will change and become like the rift valley from Geba to Rimmon, south of Jerusalem; and Jerusalem will be raised up and will stay in its own place from the Benjamin Gate to the site of the First Gate and on to the Corner Gate, and from the Tower of Hananel to the royal winepresses.
[Zech 14:11] And people will settle there, and there will no longer be the threat of divine extermination – Jerusalem will dwell in security.

¶[Zech 14:12] But this will be the nature of the plague with which the Lord will strike all the nations that have fought against Jerusalem: Their flesh will decay while they stand on their feet, their eyes will rot away in their sockets, and their tongues will dissolve in their mouths.
[Zech 14:13] On that day there will be great confusion from the Lord among them; they will seize each other and attack one another violently.
[Zech 14:14] Moreover, Judah will fight at Jerusalem, and the wealth of all the surrounding nations will be gathered up – gold, silver, and clothing in great abundance.
[Zech 14:15] This is the kind of plague that will devastate horses, mules, camels, donkeys, and all the other animals in those camps.

¶[Zech 14:16] Then all who survive from all the nations that came to attack Jerusalem will go up annually to worship the King, the Lord of Heaven’s Armies, and to observe the Feast of Shelters.
[Zech 14:17] But if any of the nations anywhere on earth refuse to go up to Jerusalem to worship the King, the Lord of Heaven’s Armies, they will get no rain.
[Zech 14:18] If the Egyptians will not do so, they will get no rain – instead there will be the kind of plague which the Lord inflicts on any nations that do not go up to celebrate the Feast of Shelters.
[Zech 14:19] This will be the punishment of Egypt and of all nations that do not go up to celebrate the Feast of Shelters.
[Zech 14:20] On that day the bells of the horses will bear the inscription “Holy to the Lord.” The cooking pots in the Lord’s temple will be as holy as the bowls in front of the altar.
[Zech 14:21] Every cooking pot in Jerusalem and Judah will become holy in the sight of the Lord of Heaven’s Armies, so that all who offer sacrifices may come and use some of them to boil their sacrifices in them. On that day there will no longer be a Canaanite in the house of the Lord of Heaven’s Armies.
