# Nahum 2

## The Description of Nineveh's Attackers
¶[Nah 2:1] (2:2) “An enemy who will scatter you, Nineveh, has advanced against you!” “Guard the rampart! Watch the road! Prepare yourselves for battle! Muster your mighty strength!”
[Nah 2:2] For the Lord is about to restore the majesty of Jacob, as well as the majesty of Israel, though their enemies have plundered them and have destroyed their fields.

## The Details of Battle
¶[Nah 2:3] The shields of his warriors are dyed red; the mighty soldiers are dressed in scarlet garments. The chariots are in flashing metal fittings on the day of battle; the soldiers brandish their spears.
[Nah 2:4] The chariots race madly through the streets, they rush back and forth in the broad plazas; they look like lightning bolts, they dash here and there like flashes of lightning.
[Nah 2:5] The commander orders his officers; they stumble as they advance; they rush to the city wall and they set up the covered siege tower.

## The Fall of Nineveh
¶[Nah 2:6] The sluice gates are opened; the royal palace is deluged and dissolves.
[Nah 2:7] Nineveh is taken into exile and is led away; her slave girls moan like doves while they beat their breasts.

¶[Nah 2:8] Nineveh was like a pool of water throughout her days, but now her people are running away; she cries out: “Stop! Stop!” – but no one turns back.
[Nah 2:9] Her conquerors cry out: “Plunder the silver! Plunder the gold!” There is no end to the treasure; riches of every kind of precious thing.
[Nah 2:10] Destruction, devastation, and desolation! Hearts faint; knees tremble; every stomach churns, all their faces have turned pale!

## The Denunciation of Nineveh's Evil
¶[Nah 2:11] Where now is the den of the lions, and the feeding place of the young lions, where the lion, lioness, and lion cub once prowled and no one disturbed them?
[Nah 2:12] The lion tore apart as much prey as his cubs needed and strangled prey for his lionesses; he filled his lairs with prey and his dens with torn flesh.
[Nah 2:13] “I am against you!” declares the Lord of Heaven’s Armies: “I will burn your chariots with fire; the sword will devour your young lions; you will no longer prey upon the land; the voices of your messengers will no longer be heard.”
