# Judges 12

## Jephthah's conflict with Ephraim
¶[Judg 12:1] The Ephraimites assembled and crossed over to Zaphon. They said to Jephthah, “Why did you go and fight with the Ammonites without asking us to go with you? We will burn your house down right over you!”
[Judg 12:2] Jephthah said to them, “My people and I were in a struggle and the Ammonites were oppressing me greatly. I asked for your help, but you did not deliver me from their power.
[Judg 12:3] When I saw that you were not going to help, I risked my life and advanced against the Ammonites, and the Lord handed them over to me. Why have you come up to fight with me today?”
[Judg 12:4] Jephthah assembled all the men of Gilead and they fought with Ephraim. The men of Gilead defeated Ephraim, because the Ephraimites insulted them, saying, “You Gileadites are refugees in Ephraim, living within Ephraim’s and Manasseh’s territory.”
[Judg 12:5] The Gileadites captured the fords of the Jordan River opposite Ephraim. Whenever an Ephraimite fugitive said, “Let me cross over,” the men of Gilead asked him, “Are you an Ephraimite?” If he said, “No,”
[Judg 12:6] then they said to him, “Say ‘Shibboleth!’” If he said, “Sibboleth” (and could not pronounce the word correctly), they grabbed him and executed him right there at the fords of the Jordan. On that day forty-two thousand Ephraimites fell dead.

¶[Judg 12:7] Jephthah led Israel for six years; then he died and was buried in his city in Gilead.

## Rule of Ibzan
¶[Judg 12:8] After him Ibzan of Bethlehem led Israel.
[Judg 12:9] He had thirty sons. He arranged for thirty of his daughters to be married outside his extended family, and he arranged for thirty young women to be brought from outside as wives for his sons. Ibzan led Israel for seven years;
[Judg 12:10] then he died and was buried in Bethlehem.

## Rule of Elon
¶[Judg 12:11] After him Elon the Zebulunite led Israel for ten years.
[Judg 12:12] Then Elon the Zebulunite died and was buried in Aijalon in the land of Zebulun.

## Rule of Abdon
¶[Judg 12:13] After him Abdon son of Hillel the Pirathonite led Israel.
[Judg 12:14] He had forty sons and thirty grandsons who rode on seventy donkeys. He led Israel for eight years.
[Judg 12:15] Then Abdon son of Hillel the Pirathonite died and was buried in Pirathon in the land of Ephraim, in the hill country of the Amalekites.
