# Exodus 15

## The Song of Moses and Miriam
¶[Exod 15:1] Then Moses and the Israelites sang this song to the Lord. They said, “I will sing to the Lord, for he has triumphed gloriously, the horse and its rider he has thrown into the sea.
[Exod 15:2] The Lord is my strength and my song, and he has become my salvation. This is my God, and I will praise him, my father’s God, and I will exalt him.
[Exod 15:3] The Lord is a warrior, the Lord is his name.
[Exod 15:4] The chariots of Pharaoh and his army he has thrown into the sea, and his chosen officers were drowned in the Red Sea.
[Exod 15:5] The depths have covered them, they went down to the bottom like a stone.
[Exod 15:6] Your right hand, O Lord, was majestic in power, your right hand, O Lord, shattered the enemy.
[Exod 15:7] In the abundance of your majesty you have overthrown those who rise up against you. You sent forth your wrath; it consumed them like stubble.
[Exod 15:8] By the blast of your nostrils the waters were piled up, the flowing water stood upright like a heap, and the deep waters were solidified in the heart of the sea.
[Exod 15:9] The enemy said, ‘I will chase, I will overtake, I will divide the spoil; my desire will be satisfied on them. I will draw my sword, my hand will destroy them.’
[Exod 15:10] But you blew with your breath, and the sea covered them. They sank like lead in the mighty waters.
[Exod 15:11] Who is like you, O Lord, among the gods? Who is like you? – majestic in holiness, fearful in praises, working wonders?
[Exod 15:12] You stretched out your right hand, the earth swallowed them.
[Exod 15:13] By your loyal love you will lead the people whom you have redeemed; you will guide them by your strength to your holy dwelling place.
[Exod 15:14] The nations will hear and tremble; anguish will seize the inhabitants of Philistia.
[Exod 15:15] Then the chiefs of Edom will be terrified, trembling will seize the leaders of Moab, and the inhabitants of Canaan will shake.
[Exod 15:16] Fear and dread will fall on them; by the greatness of your arm they will be as still as stone until your people pass by, O Lord, until the people whom you have bought pass by.
[Exod 15:17] You will bring them in and plant them in the mountain of your inheritance, in the place you made for your residence, O Lord, the sanctuary, O Lord, that your hands have established.
[Exod 15:18] The Lord will reign forever and ever!

¶[Exod 15:19] For the horses of Pharaoh came with his chariots and his footmen into the sea, and the Lord brought back the waters of the sea on them, but the Israelites walked on dry land in the middle of the sea.”
[Exod 15:20] Miriam the prophetess, the sister of Aaron, took a hand-drum in her hand, and all the women went out after her with hand-drums and with dances.
[Exod 15:21] Miriam sang in response to them, “Sing to the Lord, for he has triumphed gloriously; the horse and its rider he has thrown into the sea.”

## Bitter water turned sweet at Marah
¶[Exod 15:22] Then Moses led Israel to journey away from the Red Sea. They went out to the wilderness of Shur, walked for three days into the wilderness, and found no water.
[Exod 15:23] Then they came to Marah, but they were not able to drink the waters of Marah, because they were bitter. (That is why its name was Marah.)
[Exod 15:24] So the people murmured against Moses, saying, “What can we drink?”
[Exod 15:25] He cried out to the Lord, and the Lord showed him a tree. When Moses threw it into the water, the water became safe to drink. There the Lord made for them a binding ordinance, and there he tested them.
[Exod 15:26] He said, “If you will diligently obey the Lord your God, and do what is right in his sight, and pay attention to his commandments, and keep all his statutes, then all the diseases that I brought on the Egyptians I will not bring on you, for I, the Lord, am your healer.”
[Exod 15:27] Then they came to Elim, where there were twelve wells of water and seventy palm trees, and they camped there by the water.
