# Exodus 21

## Various laws given
¶[Exod 21:1] “These are the decisions that you will set before them:

¶[Exod 21:2] “If you buy a Hebrew servant, he is to serve you for six years, but in the seventh year he will go out free without paying anything.
[Exod 21:3] If he came in by himself he will go out by himself; if he had a wife when he came in, then his wife will go out with him.
[Exod 21:4] If his master gave him a wife, and she bore sons or daughters, the wife and the children will belong to her master, and he will go out by himself.
[Exod 21:5] But if the servant should declare, ‘I love my master, my wife, and my children; I will not go out free,’
[Exod 21:6] then his master must bring him to the judges, and he will bring him to the door or the doorpost, and his master will pierce his ear with an awl, and he shall serve him forever.

¶[Exod 21:7] “If a man sells his daughter as a female servant, she will not go out as the male servants do.
[Exod 21:8] If she does not please her master, who has designated her for himself, then he must let her be redeemed. He has no right to sell her to a foreign nation, because he has dealt deceitfully with her.
[Exod 21:9] If he designated her for his son, then he will deal with her according to the customary rights of daughters.
[Exod 21:10] If he takes another wife, he must not diminish the first one’s food, her clothing, or her marital rights.
[Exod 21:11] If he does not provide her with these three things, then she will go out free, without paying money.

¶[Exod 21:12] “Whoever strikes someone so that he dies must surely be put to death.
[Exod 21:13] But if he does not do it with premeditation, but it happens by accident, then I will appoint for you a place where he may flee.
[Exod 21:14] But if a man willfully attacks his neighbor to kill him cunningly, you will take him even from my altar that he may die.

¶[Exod 21:15] “Whoever strikes his father or his mother must surely be put to death.

¶[Exod 21:16] “Whoever kidnaps someone and sells him, or is caught still holding him, must surely be put to death.

¶[Exod 21:17] “Whoever treats his father or his mother disgracefully must surely be put to death.

¶[Exod 21:18] “If men fight, and one strikes his neighbor with a stone or with his fist and he does not die, but must remain in bed,
[Exod 21:19] and then if he gets up and walks about outside on his staff, then the one who struck him is innocent, except he must pay for the injured person’s loss of time and see to it that he is fully healed.

¶[Exod 21:20] “If a man strikes his male servant or his female servant with a staff so that he or she dies as a result of the blow, he will surely be punished.
[Exod 21:21] However, if the injured servant survives one or two days, the owner will not be punished, for he has suffered the loss.

¶[Exod 21:22] “If men fight and hit a pregnant woman and her child is born prematurely, but there is no serious injury, he will surely be punished in accordance with what the woman’s husband demands of him, and he will pay what the court decides.
[Exod 21:23] But if there is serious injury, then you will give a life for a life,
[Exod 21:24] eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot,
[Exod 21:25] burn for burn, wound for wound, bruise for bruise.

¶[Exod 21:26] “If a man strikes the eye of his male servant or his female servant so that he destroys it, he will let the servant go free as compensation for the eye.
[Exod 21:27] If he knocks out the tooth of his male servant or his female servant, he will let the servant go free as compensation for the tooth.

¶[Exod 21:28] “If an ox gores a man or a woman so that either dies, then the ox must surely be stoned and its flesh must not be eaten, but the owner of the ox will be acquitted.
[Exod 21:29] But if the ox had the habit of goring, and its owner was warned, and he did not take the necessary precautions, and then it killed a man or a woman, the ox must be stoned and the man must be put to death.
[Exod 21:30] If a ransom is set for him, then he must pay the redemption for his life according to whatever amount was set for him.
[Exod 21:31] If the ox gores a son or a daughter, the owner will be dealt with according to this rule.
[Exod 21:32] If the ox gores a male servant or a female servant, the owner must pay thirty shekels of silver, and the ox must be stoned.

¶[Exod 21:33] “If a man opens a pit or if a man digs a pit and does not cover it, and an ox or a donkey falls into it,
[Exod 21:34] the owner of the pit must repay the loss. He must give money to its owner, and the dead animal will become his.

¶[Exod 21:35] If the ox of one man injures the ox of his neighbor so that it dies, then they will sell the live ox and divide its proceeds, and they will also divide the dead ox.
[Exod 21:36] Or if it is known that the ox had the habit of goring, and its owner did not take the necessary precautions, he must surely pay ox for ox, and the dead animal will become his.
