# Exodus 31

## Appointment of craftsmen
¶[Exod 31:1] The Lord spoke to Moses:
[Exod 31:2] “See, I have chosen Bezalel son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah,
[Exod 31:3] and I have filled him with the Spirit of God in skill, in understanding, in knowledge, and in all kinds of craftsmanship,
[Exod 31:4] to make artistic designs for work with gold, with silver, and with bronze,
[Exod 31:5] and with cutting and setting stone, and with cutting wood, to work in all kinds of craftsmanship.
[Exod 31:6] Moreover, I have also given him Oholiab son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan, and I have given ability to all the specially skilled, that they may make everything I have commanded you:
[Exod 31:7] the tent of meeting, the ark of the testimony, the atonement lid that is on it, all the furnishings of the tent,
[Exod 31:8] the table with its utensils, the pure lampstand with all its utensils, the altar of incense,
[Exod 31:9] the altar for the burnt offering with all its utensils, the large basin with its base,
[Exod 31:10] the woven garments, the holy garments for Aaron the priest and the garments for his sons, to minister as priests,
[Exod 31:11] the anointing oil, and sweet incense for the Holy Place. They will make all these things just as I have commanded you.”

## Sabbath rules
¶[Exod 31:12] The Lord said to Moses,
[Exod 31:13] “Tell the Israelites, ‘Surely you must keep my Sabbaths, for it is a sign between me and you throughout your generations, that you may know that I am the Lord who sanctifies you.
[Exod 31:14] So you must keep the Sabbath, for it is holy for you. Everyone who defiles it must surely be put to death; indeed, if anyone does any work on it, then that person will be cut off from among his people.
[Exod 31:15] Six days work may be done, but on the seventh day is a Sabbath of complete rest, holy to the Lord; anyone who does work on the Sabbath day must surely be put to death.
[Exod 31:16] The Israelites must keep the Sabbath by observing the Sabbath throughout their generations as a perpetual covenant.
[Exod 31:17] It is a sign between me and the Israelites forever; for in six days the Lord made the heavens and the earth, and on the seventh day he rested and was refreshed.’”

¶[Exod 31:18] He gave Moses two tablets of testimony when he had finished speaking with him on Mount Sinai, tablets of stone written by the finger of God.
