# Colossians 4

¶[Col 4:1] Masters, treat your slaves with justice and fairness, because you know that you also have a master in heaven.

## Devotion to Prayer and Thanksgiving
¶[Col 4:2] Be devoted to prayer, keeping alert in it with thanksgiving.
[Col 4:3] At the same time pray for us too, that God may open a door for the message so that we may proclaim the mystery of Christ, for which I am in chains.
[Col 4:4] Pray that I may make it known as I should.

## Walk in Wisdom with Outsiders
¶[Col 4:5] Conduct yourselves with wisdom toward outsiders, making the most of the opportunities.
[Col 4:6] Let your speech always be gracious, seasoned with salt, so that you may know how you should answer everyone.

## Tychicus and Onesimus
¶[Col 4:7] Tychicus, a dear brother, faithful minister, and fellow slave in the Lord, will tell you all the news about me.
[Col 4:8] I sent him to you for this very purpose, that you may know how we are doing and that he may encourage your hearts.
[Col 4:9] I sent him with Onesimus, the faithful and dear brother, who is one of you. They will tell you about everything here.

## Greetings from Paul's Companions
¶[Col 4:10] Aristarchus, my fellow prisoner, sends you greetings, as does Mark, the cousin of Barnabas (about whom you received instructions; if he comes to you, welcome him).
[Col 4:11] And Jesus who is called Justus also sends greetings. In terms of Jewish converts, these are the only fellow workers for the kingdom of God, and they have been a comfort to me.
[Col 4:12] Epaphras, who is one of you and a slave of Christ, greets you. He is always struggling in prayer on your behalf, so that you may stand mature and fully assured in all the will of God.
[Col 4:13] For I can testify that he has worked hard for you and for those in Laodicea and Hierapolis.
[Col 4:14] Our dear friend Luke the physician and Demas greet you.

## Instructions for the Colossians
¶[Col 4:15] Give my greetings to the brothers and sisters who are in Laodicea and to Nympha and the church that meets in her house.
[Col 4:16] And after you have read this letter, have it read to the church of Laodicea. In turn, read the letter from Laodicea as well.
[Col 4:17] And tell Archippus, “See to it that you complete the ministry you received in the Lord.”

## Paul's Closing Message
¶[Col 4:18] I, Paul, write this greeting by my own hand. Remember my chains. Grace be with you.
