# Hosea 4

## The Indictment of Israel
¶[Hos 4:1] Listen to the Lord’s message, you Israelites! For the Lord has a covenant lawsuit against the people of Israel. For there is neither faithfulness nor loyalty in the land, nor do they acknowledge God.
[Hos 4:2] There is only cursing, lying, murder, stealing, and adultery. They resort to violence and bloodshed.
[Hos 4:3] Therefore the land will mourn, and all its inhabitants will perish. The wild animals, the birds of the sky, and even the fish in the sea will perish.

## The Sins of the People and the Priests
¶[Hos 4:4] Do not let anyone accuse or contend against anyone else: for my case is against you priests!
[Hos 4:5] You stumble day and night, and the false prophets stumble with you; You have destroyed your own people!

¶[Hos 4:6] You have destroyed my people by failing to acknowledge me! Because you refuse to acknowledge me, I will reject you as my priests. Because you reject the law of your God, I will reject your descendants.
[Hos 4:7] The more the priests increased in numbers, the more they rebelled against me. They have turned their glorious calling into a shameful disgrace!
[Hos 4:8] They feed on the sin offerings of my people; their appetites long for their iniquity!
[Hos 4:9] I will deal with the people and priests together: I will punish them both for their ways, and I will repay them for their deeds.

## Punishment for immorality and idolatry
¶[Hos 4:10] They will eat, but not be satisfied; they will engage in prostitution, but not increase in numbers; because they have abandoned the Lord by pursuing other gods.

¶[Hos 4:11] Old and new wine take away the understanding of my people.
[Hos 4:12] They consult their wooden idols, and their diviner’s staff answers with an oracle. The wind of prostitution blows them astray; they commit spiritual adultery against their God.
[Hos 4:13] They sacrifice on the mountaintops, and burn offerings on the hills; they sacrifice under oak, poplar, and terebinth, because their shade is so pleasant. As a result, your daughters have become cult prostitutes, and your daughters-in-law commit adultery!
[Hos 4:14] I will not punish your daughters when they commit prostitution, nor your daughters-in-law when they commit adultery. For the men consort with harlots, they sacrifice with temple prostitutes. It is true: “A people that lacks understanding will come to ruin!”

## Warning to Judah
¶[Hos 4:15] Although you, O Israel, commit adultery, do not let Judah become guilty! Do not journey to Gilgal! Do not go up to Beth Aven! Do not swear, “As surely as the Lord lives!”
[Hos 4:16] Israel has rebelled like a stubborn heifer! Soon the Lord will put them out to pasture like a lamb in a broad field!
[Hos 4:17] Ephraim has attached himself to idols; Do not go near him!
[Hos 4:18] They consume their alcohol, then engage in cult prostitution; they dearly love their shameful behavior.
[Hos 4:19] A whirlwind has wrapped them in its wings; they will be brought to shame because of their idolatrous worship.
