# Hosea 10

## Israel's Empty Faith
¶[Hos 10:1] Israel was a fertile vine that yielded fruit. As his fruit multiplied, he multiplied altars to Baal. As his land prospered, they adorned the fertility pillars.
[Hos 10:2] Their hearts are slipping; soon they will be punished for their guilt. The Lord will break their altars; he will completely destroy their fertility pillars.
[Hos 10:3] Very soon they will say, “We have no king since we did not fear the Lord. But what can a king do for us anyway?”

¶[Hos 10:4] They utter empty words, taking false oaths and making empty agreements. Therefore legal disputes sprout up like poisonous weeds in the furrows of a plowed field.

## The Call to Repentance
¶[Hos 10:5] The inhabitants of Samaria will lament over the calf idol of Beth Aven. Its people will mourn over it; its idolatrous priests will wail over it, because its splendor will be taken from them into exile.
[Hos 10:6] Even the calf idol will be carried to Assyria, as tribute for the great king. Ephraim will be disgraced; Israel will be put to shame because of its wooden idol.
[Hos 10:7] Samaria and its king will be carried off like a twig on the surface of the waters.
[Hos 10:8] The high places of the “House of Wickedness” will be destroyed; it is the place where Israel sins. Thorns and thistles will grow up over its altars. Then they will say to the mountains, “Cover us!” and to the hills, “Fall on us!”

## The Depravity of Israel
¶[Hos 10:9] O Israel, you have sinned since the time of Gibeah, and there you have remained. Did not war overtake the evildoers in Gibeah?

¶[Hos 10:10] When I please, I will discipline them; I will gather nations together to attack them, to bind them in chains for their two sins.

## The Need for Spiritual Reformation
¶[Hos 10:11] Ephraim was a well-trained heifer who loved to thresh grain; I myself put a fine yoke on her neck. I will harness Ephraim. Let Judah plow! Let Jacob break up the unplowed ground for himself!

¶[Hos 10:12] Sow righteousness for yourselves, reap unfailing love. Break up the unplowed ground for yourselves, for it is time to seek the Lord, until he comes and showers deliverance on you.
[Hos 10:13] But you have plowed wickedness; you have reaped injustice; you have eaten the fruit of deception. Because you have depended on your chariots; you have relied on your many warriors.
[Hos 10:14] The roar of battle will rise against your people; all your fortresses will be devastated, just as Shalman devastated Beth Arbel on the day of battle, when mothers were dashed to the ground with their children.
[Hos 10:15] So will it happen to you, O Bethel, because of your great wickedness! When that day dawns, the king of Israel will be destroyed.
