# Hosea 11

## God's Love for Israel in their Early History
¶[Hos 11:1] When Israel was a young man, I loved him like a son, and I summoned my son out of Egypt.
[Hos 11:2] But the more I summoned them, the farther they departed from me. They sacrificed to the Baal idols and burned incense to images.
[Hos 11:3] Yet it was I who led Ephraim, I took them by the arm; but they did not acknowledge that I had healed them.
[Hos 11:4] I led them with leather cords, with leather ropes; I lifted the yoke from their neck, and gently fed them.

## The Consequences of Disobedience
¶[Hos 11:5] They will return to Egypt! Assyria will rule over them because they refuse to repent!
[Hos 11:6] A sword will flash in their cities, it will destroy the bars of their city gates, and will devour them in their fortresses.
[Hos 11:7] My people are obsessed with turning away from me; they call to Baal, but he will never exalt them!

## God's Torn Compassion
¶[Hos 11:8] How can I give you up, O Ephraim? How can I surrender you, O Israel? How can I treat you like Admah? How can I make you like Zeboiim? I have had a change of heart! All my tender compassions are aroused!
[Hos 11:9] I cannot carry out my fierce anger! I cannot totally destroy Ephraim! Because I am God, and not man – the Holy One among you – I will not come in wrath!

## Promise of Israel's Return
¶[Hos 11:10] He will roar like a lion, and they will follow the Lord; when he roars, his children will come trembling from the west.
[Hos 11:11] They will return in fear and trembling like birds from Egypt, like doves from Assyria, and I will settle them in their homes,” declares the Lord.

¶[Hos 11:12] (12:1) Ephraim has surrounded me with lies; the house of Israel has surrounded me with deceit. But Judah still roams about with God; he remains faithful to the Holy One.
