# Hosea 12

## Indictment against Israel and Judah
¶[Hos 12:1] Ephraim continually feeds on the wind; he chases the east wind all day; he multiplies lies and violence. They make treaties with Assyria, and send olive oil as tribute to Egypt.
[Hos 12:2] The Lord also has a covenant lawsuit against Judah; he will punish Jacob according to his ways and repay him according to his deeds.
[Hos 12:3] In the womb he attacked his brother; in his manly vigor he struggled with God.
[Hos 12:4] He struggled with an angel and prevailed; he wept and begged for his favor. He found God at Bethel, and there he spoke with him!
[Hos 12:5] As for the Lord God Almighty, the Lord is the name by which he is remembered!
[Hos 12:6] But you must return to your God, by maintaining love and justice, and by waiting for your God to return to you.

## God's Charges Against Israel
¶[Hos 12:7] The businessmen love to cheat; they use dishonest scales.
[Hos 12:8] Ephraim boasts, “I am very rich! I have become wealthy! In all that I have done to gain my wealth, no one can accuse me of any offense that is actually sinful.”
[Hos 12:9] “I am the Lord your God who brought you out of Egypt; I will make you live in tents again as in the days of old.
[Hos 12:10] I spoke to the prophets; I myself revealed many visions; I spoke in parables through the prophets.”
[Hos 12:11] Is there idolatry in Gilead? Certainly its inhabitants will come to nothing! Do they sacrifice bulls in Gilgal? Surely their altars will be like stones heaped up on a plowed field!
[Hos 12:12] Jacob fled to the country of Aram, then Israel worked to acquire a wife; he tended sheep to pay for her.
[Hos 12:13] The Lord brought Israel out of Egypt by a prophet, and due to a prophet Israel was preserved alive.
[Hos 12:14] But Ephraim bitterly provoked him to anger; so he will hold him accountable for the blood he has shed, his Lord will repay him for the contempt he has shown.
