# Hosea 13

## Judgments Against Israel and Judah
¶[Hos 13:1] When Ephraim spoke, there was terror; he was exalted in Israel, but he became guilty by worshiping Baal and died.
[Hos 13:2] Even now they persist in sin! They make metal images for themselves, idols that they skillfully fashion from their own silver; all of them are nothing but the work of craftsmen! There is a saying about them: “Those who sacrifice to the calf idol are calf kissers!”
[Hos 13:3] Therefore they will disappear like the morning mist, like early morning dew that evaporates, like chaff that is blown away from a threshing floor, like smoke that disappears through an open window.

¶[Hos 13:4] But I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of Egypt. Therefore, you must not acknowledge any God but me; except me there is no Savior.
[Hos 13:5] I cared for you in the wilderness, in the dry desert where no water was.
[Hos 13:6] When they were fed, they became satisfied; when they were satisfied, they became proud; as a result, they forgot me!
[Hos 13:7] So I will pounce on them like a lion; like a leopard I will lurk by the path.
[Hos 13:8] I will attack them like a bear robbed of her cubs – I will rip open their chests. I will devour them there like a lion – like a wild animal would tear them apart.

¶[Hos 13:9] I will destroy you, O Israel! Who is there to help you?
[Hos 13:10] Where then is your king, that he may save you in all your cities? Where are your rulers for whom you asked, saying, “Give me a king and princes”?
[Hos 13:11] I granted you a king in my anger, and I will take him away in my wrath!
[Hos 13:12] The punishment of Ephraim has been decreed; his punishment is being stored up for the future.
[Hos 13:13] The labor pains of a woman will overtake him, but the baby will lack wisdom; when the time arrives, he will not come out of the womb!
[Hos 13:14] Will I deliver them from the power of Sheol? No, I will not! Will I redeem them from death? No, I will not! O Death, bring on your plagues! O Sheol, bring on your destruction! My eyes will not show any compassion!

¶[Hos 13:15] Even though he flourishes like a reed plant, a scorching east wind will come, a wind from the Lord rising up from the desert. As a result, his spring will dry up; his well will become dry. That wind will spoil all his delightful foods in the containers in his storehouse.
[Hos 13:16] (14:1) Samaria will be held guilty, because she rebelled against her God. They will fall by the sword, their infants will be dashed to the ground – their pregnant women will be ripped open.
