# Numbers 7

## Offerings of the Leaders
¶[Num 7:1] When Moses had completed setting up the tabernacle, he anointed it and consecrated it and all its furnishings, and he anointed and consecrated the altar and all its utensils.
[Num 7:2] Then the leaders of Israel, the heads of their clans, made an offering. They were the leaders of the tribes; they were the ones who had been supervising the numbering.
[Num 7:3] They brought their offering before the Lord, six covered carts and twelve oxen – one cart for every two of the leaders, and an ox for each one; and they presented them in front of the tabernacle.
[Num 7:4] Then the Lord spoke to Moses:
[Num 7:5] “Receive these gifts from them, that they may be used in doing the work of the tent of meeting; and you must give them to the Levites, to every man as his service requires.”
[Num 7:6] So Moses accepted the carts and the oxen and gave them to the Levites.
[Num 7:7] He gave two carts and four oxen to the Gershonites, as their service required;
[Num 7:8] and he gave four carts and eight oxen to the Merarites, as their service required, under the authority of Ithamar son of Aaron the priest.
[Num 7:9] But to the Kohathites he gave none, because the service of the holy things, which they carried on their shoulders, was their responsibility.
[Num 7:10] The leaders offered gifts for the dedication of the altar when it was anointed. And the leaders presented their offering before the altar.
[Num 7:11] For the Lord said to Moses, “They must present their offering, one leader for each day, for the dedication of the altar.”

¶[Num 7:12] The one who presented his offering on the first day was Nahshon son of Amminadab, from the tribe of Judah.
[Num 7:13] His offering was one silver platter weighing 130 shekels, and one silver sprinkling bowl weighing 70 shekels, both according to the sanctuary shekel, each of them full of fine flour mixed with olive oil as a grain offering;
[Num 7:14] one gold pan weighing 10 shekels, full of incense;
[Num 7:15] one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year, for a burnt offering;
[Num 7:16] one male goat for a purification offering;
[Num 7:17] and for the sacrifice of peace offerings: two bulls, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs in their first year. This was the offering of Nahshon son of Amminadab.

¶[Num 7:18] On the second day Nethanel son of Zuar, leader of Issachar, presented an offering.
[Num 7:19] He offered for his offering one silver platter weighing 130 shekels and one silver sprinkling bowl weighing 70 shekels, both according to the sanctuary shekel, each of them full of fine flour mixed with olive oil as a grain offering;
[Num 7:20] one gold pan weighing 10 shekels, full of incense;
[Num 7:21] one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year, for a burnt offering;
[Num 7:22] one male goat for a purification offering;
[Num 7:23] and for the sacrifice of peace offerings: two bulls, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs in their first year. This was the offering of Nethanel son of Zuar.

¶[Num 7:24] On the third day Eliab son of Helon, leader of the Zebulunites, presented an offering.
[Num 7:25] His offering was one silver platter weighing 130 shekels and one silver sprinkling bowl weighing 70 shekels, both according to the sanctuary shekel, each of them full of fine flour mixed with olive oil as a grain offering;
[Num 7:26] one gold pan weighing 10 shekels, full of incense;
[Num 7:27] one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year, for a burnt offering;
[Num 7:28] one male goat for a purification offering;
[Num 7:29] and for the sacrifice of peace offerings: two bulls, five rams, five male goats, and five male lambs in their first year. This was the offering of Eliab son of Helon.

¶[Num 7:30] On the fourth day Elizur son of Shedeur, leader of the Reubenites, presented an offering.
[Num 7:31] His offering was one silver platter weighing 130 shekels and one silver sprinkling bowl weighing 70 shekels, both according to the sanctuary shekel, each of them full of fine flour mixed with olive oil as a grain offering;
[Num 7:32] one gold pan weighing 10 shekels, full of incense;
[Num 7:33] one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year, for a burnt offering;
[Num 7:34] one male goat for a purification offering;
[Num 7:35] and for the sacrifice of peace offerings: two bulls, five rams, five male goats, and five lambs in their first year. This was the offering of Elizur son of Shedeur.

¶[Num 7:36] On the fifth day Shelumiel son of Zurishaddai, leader of the Simeonites, presented an offering.
[Num 7:37] His offering was one silver platter weighing 130 shekels and one silver sprinkling bowl weighing 70 shekels, both according to the sanctuary shekel, each of them full of fine flour mixed with olive oil as a grain offering;
[Num 7:38] one gold pan weighing 10 shekels, full of incense;
[Num 7:39] one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year, for a burnt offering;
[Num 7:40] one male goat for a purification offering;
[Num 7:41] and for the sacrifice of peace offerings: two bulls, five rams, five male goats, and five lambs in their first year. This was the offering of Shelumiel son of Zurishaddai.

¶[Num 7:42] On the sixth day Eliasaph son of Deuel, leader of the Gadites, presented an offering.
[Num 7:43] His offering was one silver platter weighing 130 shekels and one silver sprinkling bowl weighing 70 shekels, both according to the sanctuary shekel, each of them full of fine flour mixed with olive oil as a grain offering;
[Num 7:44] one gold pan weighing 10 shekels, full of incense;
[Num 7:45] one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year, for a burnt offering;
[Num 7:46] one male goat for a purification offering;
[Num 7:47] and for the sacrifice of peace offerings: two bulls, five rams, five male goats, and five lambs in their first year. This was the offering of Eliasaph son of Deuel.

¶[Num 7:48] On the seventh day Elishama son of Ammihud, leader of the Ephraimites, presented an offering.
[Num 7:49] His offering was one silver platter weighing 130 shekels and one silver sprinkling bowl weighing 70 shekels, both according to the sanctuary shekel, each of them full of fine flour mixed with olive oil as a grain offering;
[Num 7:50] one gold pan weighing 10 shekels, full of incense;
[Num 7:51] one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year, for a burnt offering;
[Num 7:52] one male goat for a purification offering;
[Num 7:53] and for the sacrifice of peace offerings: two bulls, five rams, five male goats, and five lambs in their first year. This was the offering of Elishama son of Ammihud.

¶[Num 7:54] On the eighth day Gamaliel son of Pedahzur, leader of the Manassehites, presented an offering.
[Num 7:55] His offering was one silver platter weighing 130 shekels and one silver sprinkling bowl weighing 70 shekels, both according to the sanctuary shekel, each of them full of fine flour mixed with olive oil as a grain offering;
[Num 7:56] one gold pan weighing 10 shekels, full of incense;
[Num 7:57] one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year, for a burnt offering;
[Num 7:58] one male goat for a purification offering;
[Num 7:59] and for the sacrifice of peace offerings: two bulls, five rams, five male goats, and five lambs in their first year. This was the offering of Gamaliel son of Pedahzur.

¶[Num 7:60] On the ninth day Abidan son of Gideoni, leader of the Benjaminites, presented an offering.
[Num 7:61] His offering was one silver platter weighing 130 shekels and one silver sprinkling bowl weighing 70 shekels, both according to the sanctuary shekel, each of them full of fine flour mixed with olive oil as a grain offering;
[Num 7:62] one gold pan weighing 10 shekels, full of incense;
[Num 7:63] one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year, for a burnt offering;
[Num 7:64] one male goat for a purification offering;
[Num 7:65] and for the sacrifice of peace offerings: two bulls, five rams, five male goats, and five lambs in their first year. This was the offering of Abidan son of Gideoni.

¶[Num 7:66] On the tenth day Ahiezer son of Ammishaddai, leader of the Danites, presented an offering.
[Num 7:67] His offering was one silver platter weighing 130 shekels and one silver sprinkling bowl weighing 70 shekels, both according to the sanctuary shekel, each of them full of fine flour mixed with olive oil as a grain offering;
[Num 7:68] one gold pan weighing 10 shekels, full of incense;
[Num 7:69] one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year, for a burnt offering;
[Num 7:70] one male goat for a purification offering;
[Num 7:71] and for the sacrifice of peace offerings: two bulls, five rams, five male goats, and five lambs in their first year. This was the offering of Ahiezer son of Ammishaddai.

¶[Num 7:72] On the eleventh day Pagiel son of Ocran, leader of the Asherites, presented an offering.
[Num 7:73] His offering was one silver platter weighing 130 shekels and one silver sprinkling bowl weighing 70 shekels, both according to the sanctuary shekel, each of them full of fine flour mixed with olive oil as a grain offering;
[Num 7:74] one gold pan weighing 10 shekels, full of incense;
[Num 7:75] one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year, for a burnt offering;
[Num 7:76] one male goat for a purification offering;
[Num 7:77] and for the sacrifice of peace offerings: two bulls, five rams, five male goats, and five lambs in their first year. This was the offering of Pagiel son of Ocran.

¶[Num 7:78] On the twelfth day Ahira son of Enan, leader of the Naphtalites, presented an offering.
[Num 7:79] His offering was one silver platter weighing 130 shekels and one silver sprinkling bowl weighing 70 shekels, both according to the sanctuary shekel, each of them full of fine flour mixed with olive oil as a grain offering;
[Num 7:80] one gold pan weighing 10 shekels, full of incense;
[Num 7:81] one young bull, one ram, and one male lamb in its first year, for a burnt offering;
[Num 7:82] one male goat for a purification offering;
[Num 7:83] and for the sacrifice of peace offerings: two bulls, five rams, five male goats, and five lambs in their first year. This was the offering of Ahira son of Enan.

¶[Num 7:84] This was the dedication for the altar from the leaders of Israel, when it was anointed: twelve silver platters, twelve silver sprinkling bowls, and twelve gold pans.
[Num 7:85] Each silver platter weighed 130 shekels, and each silver sprinkling bowl weighed 70 shekels. All the silver of the vessels weighed 2,400 shekels, according to the sanctuary shekel.
[Num 7:86] The twelve gold pans full of incense weighed 10 shekels each, according to the sanctuary shekel; all the gold of the pans weighed 120 shekels.
[Num 7:87] All the animals for the burnt offering were 12 young bulls, 12 rams, 12 male lambs in their first year, with their grain offering, and 12 male goats for a purification offering.
[Num 7:88] All the animals for the sacrifice for the peace offering were 24 young bulls, 60 rams, 60 male goats, and 60 lambs in their first year. These were the dedication offerings for the altar after it was anointed.

## Summarizing the Offerings
¶[Num 7:89] Now when Moses went into the tent of meeting to speak with the Lord, he heard the voice speaking to him from above the atonement lid that was on the ark of the testimony, from between the two cherubim. Thus he spoke to him.
