# Numbers 11

## The Lord's Response to Complaints
¶[Num 11:1] When the people complained, it displeased the Lord. When the Lord heard it, his anger burned, and so the fire of the Lord burned among them and consumed some of the outer parts of the camp.
[Num 11:2] When the people cried to Moses, he prayed to the Lord, and the fire died out.
[Num 11:3] So he called the name of that place Taberah because there the fire of the Lord burned among them.

## The People's Craving for Meat
¶[Num 11:4] Now the mixed multitude who were among them craved more desirable foods, and so the Israelites wept again and said, “If only we had meat to eat!
[Num 11:5] We remember the fish we used to eat freely in Egypt, the cucumbers, the melons, the leeks, the onions, and the garlic.
[Num 11:6] But now we are dried up, and there is nothing at all before us except this manna!”
[Num 11:7] (Now the manna was like coriander seed, and its color like the color of bdellium.
[Num 11:8] And the people went about and gathered it, and ground it with mills or pounded it in mortars; they baked it in pans and made cakes of it. It tasted like fresh olive oil.
[Num 11:9] And when the dew came down on the camp in the night, the manna fell with it.)
[Num 11:10] Moses heard the people weeping throughout their families, everyone at the door of his tent; and when the anger of the Lord was kindled greatly, Moses was also displeased.
[Num 11:11] And Moses said to the Lord, “Why have you afflicted your servant? Why have I not found favor in your sight, that you lay the burden of this entire people on me?
[Num 11:12] Did I conceive this entire people? Did I give birth to them, that you should say to me, ‘Carry them in your arms, as a foster father bears a nursing child,’ to the land which you swore to their fathers?
[Num 11:13] From where shall I get meat to give to this entire people, for they cry to me, ‘Give us meat, that we may eat!’
[Num 11:14] I am not able to bear this entire people alone, because it is too heavy for me!
[Num 11:15] But if you are going to deal with me like this, then kill me immediately. If I have found favor in your sight then do not let me see my trouble.”

¶[Num 11:16] The Lord said to Moses, “Gather to me seventy men of the elders of Israel, whom you know are elders of the people and officials over them, and bring them to the tent of meeting; let them take their position there with you.
[Num 11:17] Then I will come down and speak with you there, and I will take part of the Spirit that is on you, and will put it on them, and they will bear some of the burden of the people with you, so that you do not bear it all by yourself.
[Num 11:18] “And say to the people, ‘Sanctify yourselves for tomorrow, and you will eat meat, for you have wept in the hearing of the Lord, saying, “Who will give us meat to eat, for life was good for us in Egypt?” Therefore the Lord will give you meat, and you will eat.
[Num 11:19] You will eat, not just one day, nor two days, nor five days, nor ten days, nor twenty days,
[Num 11:20] but a whole month, until it comes out your nostrils and makes you sick, because you have despised the Lord who is among you and have wept before him, saying, “Why did we ever come out of Egypt?”’”
[Num 11:21] Moses said, “The people around me are 600,000 on foot; but you say, ‘I will give them meat, that they may eat for a whole month.’
[Num 11:22] Would they have enough if the flocks and herds were slaughtered for them? If all the fish of the sea were caught for them, would they have enough?”
[Num 11:23] And the Lord said to Moses, “Is the Lord’s hand shortened? Now you will see whether my word to you will come true or not!”

¶[Num 11:24] So Moses went out and told the people the words of the Lord. He then gathered seventy men of the elders of the people and had them stand around the tabernacle.
[Num 11:25] And the Lord came down in the cloud and spoke to them, and he took some of the Spirit that was on Moses and put it on the seventy elders. When the Spirit rested on them, they prophesied, but did not do so again.

¶[Num 11:26] But two men remained in the camp; one’s name was Eldad, and the other’s name was Medad. And the Spirit rested on them. (Now they were among those in the registration, but had not gone to the tabernacle.) So they prophesied in the camp.
[Num 11:27] And a young man ran and told Moses, “Eldad and Medad are prophesying in the camp!”
[Num 11:28] Joshua son of Nun, the servant of Moses, one of his choice young men, said, “My lord Moses, stop them!”
[Num 11:29] Moses said to him, “Are you jealous for me? I wish that all the Lord’s people were prophets, that the Lord would put his Spirit on them!”
[Num 11:30] Then Moses returned to the camp along with the elders of Israel.

¶[Num 11:31] Now a wind went out from the Lord and brought quail from the sea, and let them fall near the camp, about a day’s journey on this side, and about a day’s journey on the other side, all around the camp, and about three feet high on the surface of the ground.
[Num 11:32] And the people stayed up all that day, all that night, and all the next day, and gathered the quail. The one who gathered the least gathered ten homers, and they spread them out for themselves all around the camp.
[Num 11:33] But while the meat was still between their teeth, before they chewed it, the anger of the Lord burned against the people, and the Lord struck the people with a very great plague.
[Num 11:34] So the name of that place was called Kibroth Hattaavah, because there they buried the people that craved different food.
[Num 11:35] The people traveled from Kibroth Hattaavah to Hazeroth, and they stayed at Hazeroth.
