# Numbers 17

## Aaron's Rod
¶[Num 17:1] The Lord spoke to Moses:
[Num 17:2] “Speak to the Israelites, and receive from them a staff from each tribe, one from every tribal leader, twelve staffs; you must write each man’s name on his staff.
[Num 17:3] You must write Aaron’s name on the staff of Levi; for one staff is for the head of every tribe.
[Num 17:4] You must place them in the tent of meeting before the ark of the covenant where I meet with you.
[Num 17:5] And the staff of the man whom I choose will blossom; so I will rid myself of the complaints of the Israelites, which they murmur against you.”
[Num 17:6] So Moses spoke to the Israelites, and each of their leaders gave him a staff, one for each leader, according to their tribes – twelve staffs; the staff of Aaron was among their staffs.
[Num 17:7] Then Moses placed the staffs before the Lord in the tent of the testimony.

¶[Num 17:8] On the next day Moses went into the tent of the testimony – and the staff of Aaron for the house of Levi had sprouted, and brought forth buds, and produced blossoms, and yielded almonds!
[Num 17:9] So Moses brought out all the staffs from before the Lord to all the Israelites. They looked at them, and each man took his staff.
[Num 17:10] The Lord said to Moses, “Bring Aaron’s staff back before the testimony to be preserved for a sign to the rebels, so that you may bring their murmurings to an end before me, that they will not die.”
[Num 17:11] So Moses did as the Lord commanded him – this is what he did.

¶[Num 17:12] The Israelites said to Moses, “We are bound to die! We perish, we all perish!
[Num 17:13] (17:28) Anyone who even comes close to the tabernacle of the Lord will die! Are we all to die?”
