# Numbers 29

¶[Num 29:1] “‘On the first day of the seventh month, you are to hold a holy assembly. You must not do your ordinary work, for it is a day of blowing trumpets for you.
[Num 29:2] You must offer a burnt offering as a sweet aroma to the Lord: one young bull, one ram, and seven lambs one year old without blemish.
[Num 29:3] “‘Their grain offering is to be of finely ground flour mixed with olive oil, three-tenths of an ephah for the bull, two-tenths of an ephah for the ram,
[Num 29:4] and one-tenth for each of the seven lambs,
[Num 29:5] with one male goat for a purification offering to make an atonement for you;
[Num 29:6] this is in addition to the monthly burnt offering and its grain offering, and the daily burnt offering with its grain offering and their drink offerings as prescribed, as a sweet aroma, a sacrifice made by fire to the Lord.

¶[Num 29:7] “‘On the tenth day of this seventh month you are to have a holy assembly. You must humble yourselves; you must not do any work on it.
[Num 29:8] But you must offer a burnt offering as a pleasing aroma to the Lord, one young bull, one ram, and seven lambs one year old, all of them without blemish.
[Num 29:9] Their grain offering must be of finely ground flour mixed with olive oil, three-tenths of an ephah for the bull, two-tenths for the ram,
[Num 29:10] and one-tenth for each of the seven lambs,
[Num 29:11] along with one male goat for a purification offering, in addition to the purification offering for atonement and the continual burnt offering with its grain offering and their drink offerings.

¶[Num 29:12] “‘On the fifteenth day of the seventh month you are to have a holy assembly; you must do no ordinary work, and you must keep a festival to the Lord for seven days.
[Num 29:13] You must offer a burnt offering, an offering made by fire as a pleasing aroma to the Lord: thirteen young bulls, two rams, and fourteen lambs each one year old, all of them without blemish.
[Num 29:14] Their grain offering must be of finely ground flour mixed with olive oil, three-tenths of an ephah for each of the thirteen bulls, two-tenths of an ephah for each of the two rams,
[Num 29:15] and one-tenth for each of the fourteen lambs,
[Num 29:16] along with one male goat for a purification offering, in addition to the continual burnt offering with its grain offering and its drink offering.

¶[Num 29:17] “‘On the second day you must offer twelve young bulls, two rams, fourteen lambs one year old, all without blemish,
[Num 29:18] and their grain offering and their drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number as prescribed,
[Num 29:19] along with one male goat for a purification offering, in addition to the continual burnt offering with its grain offering and their drink offerings.

¶[Num 29:20] “‘On the third day you must offer eleven bulls, two rams, fourteen lambs one year old, all without blemish,
[Num 29:21] and their grain offering and their drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number as prescribed,
[Num 29:22] along with one male goat for a purification offering, in addition to the continual burnt offering with its grain offering and its drink offering.

¶[Num 29:23] “‘On the fourth day you must offer ten bulls, two rams, and fourteen lambs one year old, all without blemish,
[Num 29:24] and their grain offering and their drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number as prescribed,
[Num 29:25] along with one male goat for a purification offering, in addition to the continual burnt offering with its grain offering and its drink offering.

¶[Num 29:26] “‘On the fifth day you must offer nine bulls, two rams, and fourteen lambs one year old, all without blemish,
[Num 29:27] and their grain offering and their drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number as prescribed,
[Num 29:28] along with one male goat for a purification offering, in addition to the continual burnt offering with its grain offering and its drink offering.

¶[Num 29:29] “‘On the sixth day you must offer eight bulls, two rams, and fourteen lambs one year old, all without blemish,
[Num 29:30] and their grain offering and their drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number as prescribed,
[Num 29:31] along with one male goat for a purification offering, in addition to the continual burnt offering with its grain offering and its drink offering.

¶[Num 29:32] “‘On the seventh day you must offer seven bulls, two rams, and fourteen lambs one year old, all without blemish,
[Num 29:33] and their grain offering and their drink offerings for the bulls, for the rams, and for the lambs, according to their number as prescribed,
[Num 29:34] along with one male goat for a purification offering, in addition to the continual burnt offering with its grain offering and its drink offering.

¶[Num 29:35] “‘On the eighth day you are to have a holy assembly; you must do no ordinary work on it.
[Num 29:36] But you must offer a burnt offering, an offering made by fire, as a pleasing aroma to the Lord, one bull, one ram, seven lambs one year old, all of them without blemish,
[Num 29:37] and with their grain offering and their drink offerings for the bull, for the ram, and for the lambs, according to their number as prescribed,
[Num 29:38] along with one male goat for a purification offering, in addition to the continual burnt offering with its grain offering and its drink offering.

¶[Num 29:39] “‘These things you must present to the Lord at your appointed times, in addition to your vows and your freewill offerings, as your burnt offerings, your grain offerings, your drink offerings, and your peace offerings.’”
[Num 29:40] (30:1) So Moses told the Israelites everything, just as the Lord had commanded him.
