# Numbers 31

## Vengeance on the Midianites
¶[Num 31:1] The Lord spoke to Moses:
[Num 31:2] “Exact vengeance for the Israelites from the Midianites – after that you will be gathered to your people.”
[Num 31:3] So Moses spoke to the people: “Arm men from among you for the war, to attack the Midianites and to execute the Lord’s vengeance on Midian.
[Num 31:4] You must send to the battle a thousand men from every tribe throughout all the tribes of Israel.”
[Num 31:5] So a thousand from every tribe, twelve thousand armed for battle in all, were provided out of the thousands of Israel.
[Num 31:6] So Moses sent them to the war, one thousand from every tribe, with Phinehas son of Eleazar the priest, who was in charge of the holy articles and the signal trumpets.
[Num 31:7] They fought against the Midianites, as the Lord commanded Moses, and they killed every male.
[Num 31:8] They killed the kings of Midian in addition to those slain – Evi, Rekem, Zur, Hur, and Reba – five Midianite kings. They also killed Balaam son of Beor with the sword.
[Num 31:9] The Israelites took the women of Midian captive along with their little ones, and took all their herds, all their flocks, and all their goods as plunder.
[Num 31:10] They burned all their towns where they lived and all their encampments.
[Num 31:11] They took all the plunder and all the spoils, both people and animals.
[Num 31:12] They brought the captives and the spoils and the plunder to Moses, to Eleazar the priest, and to the Israelite community, to the camp on the rift valley plains of Moab, along the Jordan River across from Jericho.

¶[Num 31:13] Moses, Eleazar the priest, and all the leaders of the community went out to meet them outside the camp.
[Num 31:14] But Moses was furious with the officers of the army, the commanders over thousands and commanders over hundreds, who had come from service in the war.
[Num 31:15] Moses said to them, “Have you allowed all the women to live?
[Num 31:16] Look, these people through the counsel of Balaam caused the Israelites to act treacherously against the Lord in the matter of Peor – which resulted in the plague among the community of the Lord!
[Num 31:17] Now therefore kill every boy, and kill every woman who has been intimate with a man in bed.
[Num 31:18] But all the young women who have not experienced a man’s bed will be yours.
[Num 31:19] “Any of you who has killed anyone or touched any of the dead, remain outside the camp for seven days; purify yourselves and your captives on the third day, and on the seventh day.
[Num 31:20] You must purify each garment and everything that is made of skin, everything made of goat’s hair, and everything made of wood.”

¶[Num 31:21] Then Eleazar the priest said to the men of war who had gone into the battle, “This is the ordinance of the law that the Lord commanded Moses:
[Num 31:22] ‘Only the gold, the silver, the bronze, the iron, the tin, and the lead,
[Num 31:23] everything that may stand the fire, you are to pass through the fire, and it will be ceremonially clean, but it must still be purified with the water of purification. Anything that cannot withstand the fire you must pass through the water.
[Num 31:24] You must wash your clothes on the seventh day, and you will be ceremonially clean, and afterward you may enter the camp.’”

¶[Num 31:25] Then the Lord spoke to Moses:
[Num 31:26] “You and Eleazar the priest, and all the family leaders of the community, take the sum of the plunder that was captured, both people and animals.
[Num 31:27] Divide the plunder into two parts, one for those who took part in the war – who went out to battle – and the other for all the community.
[Num 31:28] “You must exact a tribute for the Lord from the fighting men who went out to battle: one life out of five hundred, from the people, the cattle, and from the donkeys and the sheep.
[Num 31:29] You are to take it from their half-share and give it to Eleazar the priest for a raised offering to the Lord.
[Num 31:30] From the Israelites’ half-share you are to take one portion out of fifty of the people, the cattle, the donkeys, and the sheep – from every kind of animal – and you are to give them to the Levites, who are responsible for the care of the Lord’s tabernacle.”
[Num 31:31] So Moses and Eleazar the priest did as the Lord commanded Moses.

¶[Num 31:32] The spoil that remained of the plunder which the fighting men had gathered was 675,000 sheep,
[Num 31:33] 72,000 cattle,
[Num 31:34] 61,000 donkeys,
[Num 31:35] and 32,000 young womenwho had not experienced a man’s bed.
[Num 31:36] The half-portion of those who went to war numbered 337,500 sheep;
[Num 31:37] the Lord’s tribute from the sheep was 675.
[Num 31:38] The cattle numbered 36,000; the Lord’s tribute was 72.
[Num 31:39] The donkeys were 30,500, of which the Lord’s tribute was 61.
[Num 31:40] The people were 16,000, of which the Lord’s tribute was 32 people.
[Num 31:41] So Moses gave the tribute, which was the Lord’s raised offering, to Eleazar the priest, as the Lord commanded Moses.

¶[Num 31:42] From the Israelites’ half-share that Moses had separated from the fighting men,
[Num 31:43] there were 337,500 sheep from the portion belonging to the community,
[Num 31:44] 36,000 cattle,
[Num 31:45] 30,500 donkeys,
[Num 31:46] and 16,000 people.
[Num 31:47] From the Israelites’ share Moses took one of every fifty people and animals and gave them to the Levites who were responsible for the care of the Lord’s tabernacle, just as the Lord commanded Moses.

¶[Num 31:48] Then the officers who were over the thousands of the army, the commanders over thousands and the commanders over hundreds, approached Moses
[Num 31:49] and said to him, “Your servants have taken a count of the men who were in the battle, who were under our authority, and not one is missing.
[Num 31:50] So we have brought as an offering for the Lord what each man found: gold ornaments, armlets, bracelets, signet rings, earrings, and necklaces, to make atonement for ourselves before the Lord.”
[Num 31:51] Moses and Eleazar the priest took the gold from them, all of it in the form of ornaments.
[Num 31:52] All the gold of the offering they offered up to the Lord from the commanders of thousands and the commanders of hundreds weighed 16,750 shekels.
[Num 31:53] Each soldier had taken plunder for himself.
[Num 31:54] So Moses and Eleazar the priest received the gold from the commanders of thousands and commanders of hundreds and brought it into the tent of meeting as a memorial for the Israelites before the Lord.
