# Numbers 33

## Summary of Israel's Journey
¶[Num 33:1] These are the journeys of the Israelites, who went out of the land of Egypt by their divisions under the authority of Moses and Aaron.
[Num 33:2] Moses recorded their departures according to their journeys, by the commandment of the Lord; now these are their journeys according to their departures.
[Num 33:3] They departed from Rameses in the first month, on the fifteenth day of the first month; on the day after the Passover the Israelites went out defiantly in plain sight of all the Egyptians.
[Num 33:4] Now the Egyptians were burying all their firstborn, whom the Lord had killed among them; the Lord also executed judgments on their gods.

¶[Num 33:5] The Israelites traveled from Rameses and camped in Succoth.
[Num 33:6] They traveled from Succoth, and camped in Etham, which is on the edge of the desert.
[Num 33:7] They traveled from Etham, and turned again to Pi-hahiroth, which is before Baal-Zephon; and they camped before Migdal.
[Num 33:8] They traveled from Pi-hahiroth, and passed through the middle of the sea into the wilderness, and went three days’ journey in the wilderness of Etham, and camped in Marah.
[Num 33:9] They traveled from Marah and came to Elim; in Elim there are twelve fountains of water and seventy palm trees, so they camped there.
[Num 33:10] They traveled from Elim, and camped by the Red Sea.
[Num 33:11] They traveled from the Red Sea and camped in the wilderness of Sin.
[Num 33:12] They traveled from the wilderness of Sin and camped in Dophkah.
[Num 33:13] And they traveled from Dophkah, and camped in Alush.
[Num 33:14] They traveled from Alush and camped at Rephidim, where there was no water for the people to drink.
[Num 33:15] They traveled from Rephidim and camped in the desert of Sinai.
[Num 33:16] They traveled from the desert of Sinai and camped at Kibroth Hattaavah.
[Num 33:17] They traveled from Kibroth Hattaavah and camped at Hazeroth.
[Num 33:18] They traveled from Hazeroth and camped in Rithmah.
[Num 33:19] They traveled from Rithmah and camped at Rimmon-perez.
[Num 33:20] They traveled from Rimmon-perez and camped in Libnah.
[Num 33:21] They traveled from Libnah and camped at Rissah.
[Num 33:22] They traveled from Rissah and camped in Kehelathah.
[Num 33:23] They traveled from Kehelathah and camped at Mount Shepher.
[Num 33:24] They traveled from Mount Shepher and camped in Haradah.
[Num 33:25] They traveled from Haradah and camped in Makheloth.
[Num 33:26] They traveled from Makheloth and camped at Tahath.
[Num 33:27] They traveled from Tahath and camped at Terah.
[Num 33:28] They traveled from Terah and camped in Mithcah.
[Num 33:29] They traveled from Mithcah and camped in Hashmonah.
[Num 33:30] They traveled from Hashmonah and camped in Moseroth.
[Num 33:31] They traveled from Moseroth and camped in Bene Jaakan.
[Num 33:32] They traveled from Bene Jaakan and camped at Hor-haggidgad.
[Num 33:33] They traveled from Hor-haggidgad and camped in Jotbathah.
[Num 33:34] They traveled from Jotbathah and camped in Abronah.
[Num 33:35] They traveled from Abronah and camped at Ezion Geber.
[Num 33:36] They traveled from Ezion Geber and camped in the wilderness of Zin, which is Kadesh.
[Num 33:37] They traveled from Kadesh and camped in Mount Hor at the edge of the land of Edom.

¶[Num 33:38] Aaron the priest ascended Mount Hor at the command of the Lord, and he died there in the fortieth year after the Israelites had come out of the land of Egypt on the first day of the fifth month.
[Num 33:39] Now Aaron was 123 years old when he died in Mount Hor.

¶[Num 33:40] The king of Arad, the Canaanite king who lived in the south of the land of Canaan, heard about the approach of the Israelites.

¶[Num 33:41] They traveled from Mount Hor and camped in Zalmonah.
[Num 33:42] They traveled from Zalmonah and camped in Punon.
[Num 33:43] They traveled from Punon and camped in Oboth.
[Num 33:44] They traveled from Oboth and camped in Iye Abarim, on the border of Moab.
[Num 33:45] They traveled from Iim and camped in Dibon-gad.
[Num 33:46] They traveled from Dibon-gad and camped in Almon-diblathaim.
[Num 33:47] They traveled from Almon-diblathaim and camped in the mountains of Abarim before Nebo.
[Num 33:48] They traveled from the mountains of Abarim and camped in the rift valley plains by Moab along the Jordan River across from Jericho.
[Num 33:49] They camped by the Jordan, from Beth Jeshimoth as far as Abel-shittim in the rift valley plains of Moab.

## Instructions for Conquering Canaan
¶[Num 33:50] The Lord spoke to Moses in the rift valley plains of Moab along the Jordan, across from Jericho. He said:
[Num 33:51] “Speak to the Israelites and tell them, ‘When you have crossed the Jordan into the land of Canaan,
[Num 33:52] you must drive out all the inhabitants of the land before you. Destroy all their carved images, all their molten images, and demolish their high places.
[Num 33:53] You must dispossess the inhabitants of the land and live in it, for I have given you the land to possess it.
[Num 33:54] You must divide the land by lot for an inheritance among your families. To a larger group you must give a larger inheritance, and to a smaller group you must give a smaller inheritance. Everyone’s inheritance must be in the place where his lot falls. You must inherit according to your ancestral tribes.
[Num 33:55] But if you do not drive out the inhabitants of the land before you, then those whom you allow to remain will be irritants in your eyes and thorns in your side, and will cause you trouble in the land where you will be living.
[Num 33:56] And what I intended to do to them I will do to you.”
