# Leviticus 24

## The use of oil and bread in the sanctuary
¶`Lev 24:1` The Lord spoke to Moses:
`Lev 24:2` “Command the Israelites to bring to you pure oil of beaten olives for the light, to make a lamp burn continually.
`Lev 24:3` Outside the special curtain of the congregation in the Meeting Tent Aaron must arrange it from evening until morning before the Lord continually. This is a perpetual statute throughout your generations.
`Lev 24:4` On the ceremonially pure lampstand he must arrange the lamps before the Lord continually.

¶`Lev 24:5` “You must take choice wheat flour and bake twelve loaves; there must be two tenths of an ephah of flour in each loaf,
`Lev 24:6` and you must set them in two rows, six in a row, on the ceremonially pure table before the Lord.
`Lev 24:7` You must put pure frankincense on each row, and it will become a memorial portion for the bread, a gift to the Lord.
`Lev 24:8` Each Sabbath day Aaron must arrange it before the Lord continually; this portion is from the Israelites as a perpetual covenant.
`Lev 24:9` It will belong to Aaron and his sons, and they must eat it in a holy place because it is most holy to him, a perpetual allotted portion from the gifts of the Lord.

## Blasphemy and its punishment
¶`Lev 24:10` Now an Israelite woman’s son whose father was an Egyptian went out among the Israelites, and the Israelite woman’s son and an Israelite man had a fight in the camp.
`Lev 24:11` The Israelite woman’s son misused the Name and cursed, so they brought him to Moses. (Now his mother’s name was Shelomith daughter of Dibri, of the tribe of Dan.)
`Lev 24:12` So they placed him in custody until they were able to make a clear legal decision for themselves based on words from the mouth of the Lord.

¶`Lev 24:13` Then the Lord spoke to Moses:
`Lev 24:14` “Bring the one who cursed outside the camp, and all who heard him are to lay their hands on his head, and the whole congregation is to stone him to death.
`Lev 24:15` Moreover, you are to tell the Israelites, ‘If any man curses his God he will bear responsibility for his sin,
`Lev 24:16` and one who misuses the name of the Lord must surely be put to death. The whole congregation must surely stone him, whether he is a resident foreigner or a native citizen; when he misuses the Name he must be put to death.
`Lev 24:17` “‘If a man beats any person to death, he must be put to death.
`Lev 24:18` One who beats an animal to death must make restitution for it, life for life.
`Lev 24:19` If a man inflicts an injury on his fellow citizen, just as he has done it must be done to him –
`Lev 24:20` fracture for fracture, eye for eye, tooth for tooth – just as he inflicts an injury on another person that same injury must be inflicted on him.
`Lev 24:21` One who beats an animal to death must make restitution for it, but one who beats a person to death must be put to death.
`Lev 24:22` There will be one regulation for you, whether a resident foreigner or a native citizen, for I am the Lord your God.’”
`Lev 24:23` Then Moses spoke to the Israelites and they brought the one who cursed outside the camp and stoned him with stones. So the Israelites did just as the Lord had commanded Moses.
