# Isaiah 16

¶[Isa 16:1] Send rams as tribute to the ruler of the land, from Sela in the wilderness to the hill of Daughter Zion.
[Isa 16:2] At the fords of the Arnon the Moabite women are like a bird that flies about when forced from its nest.
[Isa 16:3] “Bring a plan, make a decision! Provide some shade in the middle of the day! Hide the fugitives! Do not betray the one who tries to escape!
[Isa 16:4] Please let the Moabite fugitives live among you. Hide them from the destroyer!” Certainly the one who applies pressure will cease, the destroyer will come to an end, those who trample will disappear from the earth.
[Isa 16:5] Then a trustworthy king will be established; he will rule in a reliable manner, this one from David’s family. He will be sure to make just decisions and will be experienced in executing justice.

¶[Isa 16:6] We have heard about Moab’s pride, their great arrogance, their boasting, pride, and excess. But their boastful claims are empty!
[Isa 16:7] So Moab wails over its demise – they all wail! Completely devastated, they moan about what has happened to the raisin cakes of Kir Hareseth.
[Isa 16:8] For the fields of Heshbon are dried up, as well as the vines of Sibmah. The rulers of the nations trample all over its vines, which reach Jazer and spread to the wilderness; their shoots spread out and cross the sea.
[Isa 16:9] So I weep along with Jazer over the vines of Sibmah. I will saturate you with my tears, Heshbon and Elealeh, for the conquering invaders shout triumphantly over your fruit and crops.
[Isa 16:10] Joy and happiness disappear from the orchards, and in the vineyards no one rejoices or shouts; no one treads out juice in the wine vats – I have brought the joyful shouts to an end.
[Isa 16:11] So my heart constantly sighs for Moab, like the strumming of a harp, my inner being sighs for Kir Hareseth.
[Isa 16:12] When the Moabites plead with all their might at their high places, and enter their temples to pray, their prayers will be ineffective!

¶[Isa 16:13] This is the message the Lord previously announced about Moab.
[Isa 16:14] Now the Lord makes this announcement: “Within exactly three years Moab’s splendor will disappear, along with all her many people; there will be just a few, insignificant survivors left.”
