# Isaiah 21

## Judgment on Tyre and the Land
¶`Isa 21:1` This is an oracle about the wilderness by the Sea: Like strong winds blowing in the south, one invades from the wilderness, from a land that is feared.
`Isa 21:2` I have received a distressing message: “The deceiver deceives, the destroyer destroys. Attack, you Elamites! Lay siege, you Medes! I will put an end to all the groaning!”
`Isa 21:3` For this reason my stomach churns; cramps overwhelm me like the contractions of a woman in labor. I am disturbed by what I hear, horrified by what I see.
`Isa 21:4` My heart palpitates, I shake in fear; the twilight I desired has brought me terror.
`Isa 21:5` Arrange the table, lay out the carpet, eat and drink! Get up, you officers, smear oil on the shields!
`Isa 21:6` For this is what the Lord has told me: “Go, post a guard! He must report what he sees.
`Isa 21:7` When he sees chariots, teams of horses, riders on donkeys, riders on camels, he must be alert, very alert.”
`Isa 21:8` Then the guard cries out: “On the watchtower, O Lord, I stand all day long; at my post I am stationed every night.
`Isa 21:9` Look what’s coming! A charioteer, a team of horses.” When questioned, he replies, “Babylon has fallen, fallen! All the idols of her gods lie shattered on the ground!”

¶`Isa 21:10` O my downtrodden people, crushed like stalks on the threshing floor, what I have heard from the Lord of Heaven’s Armies, the God of Israel, I have reported to you.

¶`Isa 21:11` This is an oracle about Dumah: Someone calls to me from Seir, “Watchman, what is left of the night? Watchman, what is left of the night?”
`Isa 21:12` The watchman replies, “Morning is coming, but then night. If you want to ask, ask; come back again.”

## Oracles against Edom and Arabia
¶`Isa 21:13` This is an oracle about Arabia: In the thicket of Arabia you spend the night, you Dedanite caravans.
`Isa 21:14` Bring out some water for the thirsty. You who live in the land of Tema, bring some food for the fugitives.
`Isa 21:15` For they flee from the swords – from the drawn sword and from the battle-ready bow and from the severity of the battle.
`Isa 21:16` For this is what the Lord has told me: “Within exactly one year all the splendor of Kedar will come to an end.
`Isa 21:17` Just a handful of archers, the warriors of Kedar, will be left.” Indeed, the Lord God of Israel has spoken.
