# Isaiah 24

## Destruction of the Earth and Triumph of God
¶[Isa 24:1] Look, the Lord is ready to devastate the earth and leave it in ruins; he will mar its surface and scatter its inhabitants.
[Isa 24:2] Everyone will suffer – the priest as well as the people, the master as well as the servant, the elegant lady as well as the female attendant, the seller as well as the buyer, the borrower as well as the lender, the creditor as well as the debtor.
[Isa 24:3] The earth will be completely devastated and thoroughly ransacked. For the Lord has decreed this judgment.
[Isa 24:4] The earth dries up and withers, the world shrivels up and withers; the prominent people of the earth fade away.
[Isa 24:5] The earth is defiled by its inhabitants, for they have violated laws, disregarded the regulation, and broken the permanent treaty.
[Isa 24:6] So a treaty curse devours the earth; its inhabitants pay for their guilt. This is why the inhabitants of the earth disappear, and are reduced to just a handful of people.
[Isa 24:7] The new wine dries up, the vines shrivel up, all those who like to celebrate groan.
[Isa 24:8] The happy sound of the tambourines stops, the revelry of those who celebrate comes to a halt, the happy sound of the harp ceases.
[Isa 24:9] They no longer sing and drink wine; the beer tastes bitter to those who drink it.
[Isa 24:10] The ruined town is shattered; all of the houses are shut up tight.
[Isa 24:11] They howl in the streets because of what happened to the wine; all joy turns to sorrow; celebrations disappear from the earth.
[Isa 24:12] The city is left in ruins; the gate is reduced to rubble.
[Isa 24:13] This is what will happen throughout the earth, among the nations. It will be like when they beat an olive tree, and just a few olives are left at the end of the harvest.

¶[Isa 24:14] They lift their voices and shout joyfully; they praise the majesty of the Lord in the west.
[Isa 24:15] So in the east extol the Lord, along the seacoasts extol the fame of the Lord God of Israel.
[Isa 24:16] From the ends of the earth we hear songs – the Just One is majestic. But I say, “I’m wasting away! I’m wasting away! I’m doomed! Deceivers deceive, deceivers thoroughly deceive!”
[Isa 24:17] Terror, pit, and snare are ready to overtake you inhabitants of the earth!
[Isa 24:18] The one who runs away from the sound of the terror will fall into the pit; the one who climbs out of the pit, will be trapped by the snare. For the floodgates of the heavens are opened up and the foundations of the earth shake.
[Isa 24:19] The earth is broken in pieces, the earth is ripped to shreds, the earth shakes violently.
[Isa 24:20] The earth will stagger around like a drunk; it will sway back and forth like a hut in a windstorm. Its sin will weigh it down, and it will fall and never get up again.

¶[Isa 24:21] At that time the Lord will punish the heavenly forces in the heavens and the earthly kings on the earth.
[Isa 24:22] They will be imprisoned in a pit, locked up in a prison, and after staying there for a long time, they will be punished.
[Isa 24:23] The full moon will be covered up, the bright sun will be darkened; for the Lord of Heaven’s Armies will rule on Mount Zion in Jerusalem in the presence of his assembly, in majestic splendor.
