# Isaiah 32

¶[Isa 32:1] Look, a king will promote fairness; officials will promote justice.
[Isa 32:2] Each of them will be like a shelter from the wind and a refuge from a rainstorm; like streams of water in a dry region and like the shade of a large cliff in a parched land.
[Isa 32:3] Eyes will no longer be blind and ears will be attentive.
[Isa 32:4] The mind that acts rashly will possess discernment and the tongue that stutters will speak with ease and clarity.
[Isa 32:5] A fool will no longer be called honorable; a deceiver will no longer be called principled.
[Isa 32:6] For a fool speaks disgraceful things; his mind plans out sinful deeds. He commits godless deeds and says misleading things about the Lord; he gives the hungry nothing to satisfy their appetite and gives the thirsty nothing to drink.
[Isa 32:7] A deceiver’s methods are evil; he dreams up evil plans to ruin the poor with lies, even when the needy are in the right.
[Isa 32:8] An honorable man makes honorable plans; his honorable character gives him security.

¶[Isa 32:9] You complacent women, get up and listen to me! You carefree daughters, pay attention to what I say!
[Isa 32:10] In a year’s time you carefree ones will shake with fear, for the grape harvest will fail, and the fruit harvest will not arrive.
[Isa 32:11] Tremble, you complacent ones! Shake with fear, you carefree ones! Strip off your clothes and expose yourselves – put sackcloth on your waist!
[Isa 32:12] Mourn over the field, over the delightful fields and the fruitful vine!
[Isa 32:13] Mourn over the land of my people, which is overgrown with thorns and briers, and over all the once-happy houses in the city filled with revelry.
[Isa 32:14] For the fortress is neglected; the once-crowded city is abandoned. Hill and watchtower are permanently uninhabited. Wild donkeys love to go there, and flocks graze there.
[Isa 32:15] This desolation will continue until new life is poured out on us from heaven. Then the wilderness will become an orchard and the orchard will be considered a forest.

¶[Isa 32:16] Justice will settle down in the wilderness and fairness will live in the orchard.
[Isa 32:17] Fairness will produce peace and result in lasting security.
[Isa 32:18] My people will live in peaceful settlements, in secure homes, and in safe, quiet places.
[Isa 32:19] Even if the forest is destroyed and the city is annihilated,
[Isa 32:20] you will be blessed, you who plant seed by all the banks of the streams, you who let your ox and donkey graze.
