# Isaiah 38

## Hezekiah's Sickness and Recovery
¶[Isa 38:1] In those days Hezekiah was stricken with a terminal illness. The prophet Isaiah son of Amoz visited him and told him, “This is what the Lord says, ‘Give instructions to your household, for you are about to die; you will not get well.’”
[Isa 38:2] Hezekiah turned his face to the wall and prayed to the Lord,
[Isa 38:3] “Please, Lord. Remember how I have served you faithfully and with wholehearted devotion, and how I have carried out your will.” Then Hezekiah wept bitterly.
[Isa 38:4] The Lord’s message came to Isaiah,
[Isa 38:5] “Go and tell Hezekiah: ‘This is what the Lord God of your ancestor David says: “I have heard your prayer; I have seen your tears. Look, I will add fifteen years to your life,
[Isa 38:6] and rescue you and this city from the king of Assyria. I will shield this city.”’”
[Isa 38:7] Isaiah replied, “This is your sign from the Lord confirming that the Lord will do what he has said:
[Isa 38:8] Look, I will make the shadow go back ten steps on the stairs of Ahaz.” And then the shadow went back ten steps.

¶[Isa 38:9] This is the prayer of King Hezekiah of Judah when he was sick and then recovered from his illness:

¶[Isa 38:10] “I thought, ‘In the middle of my life I must walk through the gates of Sheol, I am deprived of the rest of my years.’
[Isa 38:11] “I thought, ‘I will no longer see the Lord in the land of the living, I will no longer look on humankind with the inhabitants of the world.
[Isa 38:12] My dwelling place is removed and taken away from me like a shepherd’s tent. I rolled up my life like a weaver rolls cloth; from the loom he cuts me off. You turn day into night and end my life.
[Isa 38:13] I cry out until morning; like a lion he shatters all my bones; you turn day into night and end my life.
[Isa 38:14] Like a swallow or a thrush I chirp, I coo like a dove; my eyes grow tired from looking up to the sky. O Lord, I am oppressed; help me!
[Isa 38:15] What can I say? He has decreed and acted. I will walk slowly all my years because I am overcome with grief.
[Isa 38:16] O Lord, your decrees can give men life; may years of life be restored to me. Restore my health and preserve my life.’
[Isa 38:17] “Look, the grief I experienced was for my benefit. You delivered me from the Pit of oblivion. For you removed all my sins from your sight.
[Isa 38:18] Indeed Sheol does not give you thanks; death does not praise you. Those who descend into the Pit do not anticipate your faithfulness.
[Isa 38:19] The living person, the living person, he gives you thanks, as I do today. A father tells his sons about your faithfulness.
[Isa 38:20] The Lord is about to deliver me, and we will celebrate with music for the rest of our lives in the Lord’s temple.”

¶[Isa 38:21] Isaiah ordered, “Let them take a fig cake and apply it to the ulcerated sore and he will get well.”
[Isa 38:22] Hezekiah said, “What is the confirming sign that I will go up to the Lord’s temple?”
