# Isaiah 62

## Jerusalem's New Name and Future Prosperity
¶[Isa 62:1] “For the sake of Zion I will not be silent; for the sake of Jerusalem I will not be quiet, until her vindication shines brightly and her deliverance burns like a torch.”
[Isa 62:2] Nations will see your vindication, and all kings your splendor. You will be called by a new name that the Lord himself will give you.
[Isa 62:3] You will be a majestic crown in the hand of the Lord, a royal turban in the hand of your God.
[Isa 62:4] You will no longer be called, “Abandoned,” and your land will no longer be called “Desolate.” Indeed, you will be called “My Delight is in Her,” and your land “Married.” For the Lord will take delight in you, and your land will be married to him.
[Isa 62:5] As a young man marries a young woman, so your sons will marry you. As a bridegroom rejoices over a bride, so your God will rejoice over you.

¶[Isa 62:6] I post watchmen on your walls, O Jerusalem; they should keep praying all day and all night. You who pray to the Lord, don’t be silent!
[Isa 62:7] Don’t allow him to rest until he reestablishes Jerusalem, until he makes Jerusalem the pride of the earth.
[Isa 62:8] The Lord swears an oath by his right hand, by his strong arm: “I will never again give your grain to your enemies as food, and foreigners will not drink your wine, which you worked hard to produce.
[Isa 62:9] But those who harvest the grain will eat it, and will praise the Lord. Those who pick the grapes will drink the wine in the courts of my holy sanctuary.”

¶[Isa 62:10] Come through! Come through the gates! Prepare the way for the people! Build it! Build the roadway! Remove the stones! Lift a signal flag for the nations!
[Isa 62:11] Look, the Lord announces to the entire earth: “Say to Daughter Zion, ‘Look, your deliverer comes! Look, his reward is with him and his reward goes before him!’”
[Isa 62:12] They will be called, “The Holy People, the Ones Protected by the Lord.” You will be called, “Sought After, City Not Abandoned.”
