# Isaiah 64

¶[Isa 64:1] (63:19b ) If only you would tear apart the sky and come down! The mountains would tremble before you!
[Isa 64:2] (64:1) As when fire ignites dry wood, or fire makes water boil, let your adversaries know who you are, and may the nations shake at your presence!
[Isa 64:3] When you performed awesome deeds that took us by surprise, you came down, and the mountains trembled before you.
[Isa 64:4] Since ancient times no one has heard or perceived, no eye has seen any God besides you, who intervenes for those who wait for him.
[Isa 64:5] You assist those who delight in doing what is right, who observe your commandments. Look, you were angry because we violated them continually. How then can we be saved?
[Isa 64:6] We are all like one who is unclean, all our so-called righteous acts are like a menstrual rag in your sight. We all wither like a leaf; our sins carry us away like the wind.
[Isa 64:7] No one invokes your name, or makes an effort to take hold of you. For you have rejected us and handed us over to our own sins.

¶[Isa 64:8] Yet, Lord, you are our father. We are the clay, and you are our potter; we are all the product of your labor.
[Isa 64:9] Lord, do not be too angry! Do not hold our sins against us continually! Take a good look at your people, at all of us!
[Isa 64:10] Your chosen cities have become a wilderness; Zion has become a wilderness, Jerusalem, a desolate ruin.
[Isa 64:11] Our holy temple, our pride and joy, the place where our ancestors praised you, has been burned with fire; all our prized possessions have been destroyed.
[Isa 64:12] In light of all this, how can you still hold back, Lord? How can you be silent and continue to humiliate us?
