# Psalms 5

## Introduction: A Cry for Help
¶[Ps 5:1] For the music director, to be accompanied by wind instruments; a psalm of David. Listen to what I say, Lord! Carefully consider my complaint!
[Ps 5:2] Pay attention to my cry for help, my king and my God, for I am praying to you!
[Ps 5:3] Lord, in the morning you will hear me; in the morning I will present my case to you and then wait expectantly for an answer.

## God's Disapproval of Evil
¶[Ps 5:4] Certainly you are not a God who approves of evil; evil people cannot dwell with you.
[Ps 5:5] Arrogant people cannot stand in your presence; you hate all who behave wickedly.
[Ps 5:6] You destroy liars; the Lord despises violent and deceitful people.

## Seeking Refuge in God
¶[Ps 5:7] But as for me, because of your great faithfulness I will enter your house; I will bow down toward your holy temple as I worship you.
[Ps 5:8] Lord, lead me in your righteousness because of those who wait to ambush me, remove the obstacles in the way in which you are guiding me!

## Accusation of the Wicked
¶[Ps 5:9] For they do not speak the truth; their stomachs are like the place of destruction, their throats like an open grave, their tongues like a steep slope leading into it.
[Ps 5:10] Condemn them, O God! May their own schemes be their downfall! Drive them away because of their many acts of insurrection, for they have rebelled against you.

## God's Protection to the Righteous
¶[Ps 5:11] But may all who take shelter in you be happy! May they continually shout for joy! Shelter them so that those who are loyal to you may rejoice!
[Ps 5:12] Certainly you reward the godly, Lord. Like a shield you protect them in your good favor.
