# Psalms 7

## Introduction: David's Appeal for Justice
¶`Ps 7:1` A musical composition by David, which he sang to the Lord concerning a Benjaminite named Cush. O Lord my God, in you I have taken shelter. Deliver me from all who chase me! Rescue me!
`Ps 7:2` Otherwise they will rip me to shreds like a lion; they will tear me to bits and no one will be able to rescue me.

## David's Righteousness and Innocence
¶`Ps 7:3` O Lord my God, if I have done what they say, or am guilty of unjust actions,
`Ps 7:4` or have wronged my ally, or helped his lawless enemy,
`Ps 7:5` may an enemy relentlessly chase me and catch me; may he trample me to death and leave me lying dishonored in the dust. (Selah)

## God as the Righteous Judge
¶`Ps 7:6` Stand up angrily, Lord! Rise up with raging fury against my enemies! Wake up for my sake and execute the judgment you have decreed for them!
`Ps 7:7` The countries are assembled all around you; take once more your rightful place over them!
`Ps 7:8` The Lord judges the nations. Vindicate me, Lord, because I am innocent, because I am blameless, O Exalted One!
`Ps 7:9` May the evil deeds of the wicked come to an end! But make the innocent secure, O righteous God, you who examine inner thoughts and motives!
`Ps 7:10` The Exalted God is my shield, the one who delivers the morally upright.

## God's Punishment for the Wicked
¶`Ps 7:11` God is a just judge; he is angry throughout the day.
`Ps 7:12` If a person does not repent, God will wield his sword. He has prepared to shoot his bow.
`Ps 7:13` He has prepared deadly weapons to use against him; he gets ready to shoot flaming arrows.

## The Consequences of Wickedness
¶`Ps 7:14` See the one who is pregnant with wickedness, who conceives destructive plans, and gives birth to harmful lies –
`Ps 7:15` he digs a pit and then falls into the hole he has made.
`Ps 7:16` He becomes the victim of his own destructive plans and the violence he intended for others falls on his own head.

## David's Praise and Gratitude
¶`Ps 7:17` I will thank the Lord for his justice; I will sing praises to the Lord Most High!
