# Psalms 9

## Praise for God's Justice
¶`Ps 9:1` For the music director; according to the alumoth-labben style; a psalm of David. I will thank the Lord with all my heart! I will tell about all your amazing deeds!
`Ps 9:2` I will be happy and rejoice in you! I will sing praises to you, O Most High!

## Wicked Nations' Downfall
¶`Ps 9:3` When my enemies turn back, they trip and are defeated before you.
`Ps 9:4` For you defended my just cause; from your throne you pronounced a just decision.
`Ps 9:5` You terrified the nations with your battle cry; you destroyed the wicked; you permanently wiped out all memory of them.
`Ps 9:6` The enemy’s cities have been reduced to permanent ruins; you destroyed their cities; all memory of the enemies has perished.

## God's Eternal Throneship
¶`Ps 9:7` But the Lord rules forever; he reigns in a just manner.
`Ps 9:8` He judges the world fairly; he makes just legal decisions for the nations.

## The Lord as Refuge
¶`Ps 9:9` Consequently the Lord provides safety for the oppressed; he provides safety in times of trouble.
`Ps 9:10` Your loyal followers trust in you, for you, Lord, do not abandon those who seek your help.

## Proclaiming God's Wondrous Works
¶`Ps 9:11` Sing praises to the Lord, who rules in Zion! Tell the nations what he has done!
`Ps 9:12` For the one who takes revenge against murderers took notice of the oppressed; he did not overlook their cry for help

## The Prayers of the Humble
¶`Ps 9:13` when they prayed: “Have mercy on me, Lord! See how I am oppressed by those who hate me, O one who can snatch me away from the gates of death!
`Ps 9:14` Then I will tell about all your praiseworthy acts; in the gates of Daughter Zion I will rejoice because of your deliverance.”

## The Fate of the Wicked
¶`Ps 9:15` The nations fell into the pit they had made; their feet were caught in the net they had hidden.
`Ps 9:16` The Lord revealed himself; he accomplished justice; the wicked were ensnared by their own actions. (Higgaion. Selah)

## Hope for the Needy
¶`Ps 9:17` The wicked are turned back and sent to Sheol; this is the destiny of all the nations that ignore God,

## Remembering the Forgotten
¶`Ps 9:18` for the needy are not permanently ignored, the hopes of the oppressed are not forever dashed.
`Ps 9:19` Rise up, Lord! Don’t let men be defiant! May the nations be judged in your presence!
`Ps 9:20` Terrify them, Lord! Let the nations know they are mere mortals! (Selah)
