# Psalms 10

## Introduction: Cry for Justice
¶[Ps 10:1] Why, Lord, do you stand far off? Why do you pay no attention during times of trouble?
[Ps 10:2] The wicked arrogantly chase the oppressed; the oppressed are trapped by the schemes the wicked have dreamed up.

## The Character of the Wicked
¶[Ps 10:3] Yes, the wicked man boasts because he gets what he wants; the one who robs others curses and rejects the Lord.
[Ps 10:4] The wicked man is so arrogant he always thinks, “God won’t hold me accountable; he doesn’t care.”
[Ps 10:5] He is secure at all times. He has no regard for your commands; he disdains all his enemies.
[Ps 10:6] He says to himself, “I will never be shaken, because I experience no calamity.”
[Ps 10:7] His mouth is full of curses and deceptive, harmful words; his tongue injures and destroys.
[Ps 10:8] He waits in ambush near the villages; in hidden places he kills the innocent. His eyes look for some unfortunate victim.
[Ps 10:9] He lies in ambush in a hidden place, like a lion in a thicket; he lies in ambush, waiting to catch the oppressed; he catches the oppressed by pulling in his net.
[Ps 10:10] His victims are crushed and beaten down; they are trapped in his sturdy nets.
[Ps 10:11] He says to himself, “God overlooks it; he does not pay attention; he never notices.”

## David's Appeal to God
¶[Ps 10:12] Rise up, Lord! O God, strike him down! Do not forget the oppressed!
[Ps 10:13] Why does the wicked man reject God? He says to himself, “You will not hold me accountable.”
[Ps 10:14] You have taken notice, for you always see one who inflicts pain and suffering. The unfortunate victim entrusts his cause to you; you deliver the fatherless.
[Ps 10:15] Break the arm of the wicked and evil man! Hold him accountable for his wicked deeds, which he thought you would not discover.

## Conclusion: Praise and Confidence in God
¶[Ps 10:16] The Lord rules forever! The nations are driven out of his land.
[Ps 10:17] Lord, you have heard the request of the oppressed; you make them feel secure because you listen to their prayer.
[Ps 10:18] You defend the fatherless and oppressed, so that mere mortals may no longer terrorize them.
