# Psalms 17

## Introduction: A Prayer for Vindication
¶`Ps 17:1` A prayer of David. Lord, consider my just cause! Pay attention to my cry for help! Listen to the prayer I sincerely offer!
`Ps 17:2` Make a just decision on my behalf! Decide what is right!

## Affirmation of Integrity
¶`Ps 17:3` You have scrutinized my inner motives; you have examined me during the night. You have carefully evaluated me, but you find no sin. I am determined I will say nothing sinful.
`Ps 17:4` As for the actions of people – just as you have commanded, I have not followed in the footsteps of violent men.
`Ps 17:5` I carefully obey your commands; I do not deviate from them.

## Petition for Protection
¶`Ps 17:6` I call to you for you will answer me, O God. Listen to me! Hear what I say!
`Ps 17:7` Accomplish awesome, faithful deeds, you who powerfully deliver those who look to you for protection from their enemies.
`Ps 17:8` Protect me as you would protect the pupil of your eye! Hide me in the shadow of your wings!
`Ps 17:9` Protect me from the wicked men who attack me, my enemies who crowd around me for the kill.

## Description of Wicked Enemies
¶`Ps 17:10` They are calloused; they speak arrogantly.
`Ps 17:11` They attack me, now they surround me; they intend to throw me to the ground.
`Ps 17:12` He is like a lion that wants to tear its prey to bits, like a young lion crouching in hidden places.

## Prayer for God's Intervention
¶`Ps 17:13` Rise up, Lord! Confront him! Knock him down! Use your sword to rescue me from the wicked man!
`Ps 17:14` Lord, use your power to deliver me from these murderers, from the murderers of this world! They enjoy prosperity; you overwhelm them with the riches they desire. They have many children, and leave their wealth to their offspring.

## Expression of Confidence and Hope
¶`Ps 17:15` As for me, because I am innocent I will see your face; when I awake you will reveal yourself to me.
