# Psalms 19

## Introduction: The Glory of God's Creation
¶[Ps 19:1] For the music director; a psalm of David. The heavens declare the glory of God; the sky displays his handiwork.
[Ps 19:2] Day after day it speaks out; night after night it reveals his greatness.
[Ps 19:3] There is no actual speech or word, nor is its voice literally heard.
[Ps 19:4] Yet its voice echoes throughout the earth; its words carry to the distant horizon. In the sky he has pitched a tent for the sun.
[Ps 19:5] Like a bridegroom it emerges from its chamber; like a strong man it enjoys running its course.
[Ps 19:6] It emerges from the distant horizon, and goes from one end of the sky to the other; nothing can escape its heat.

## The Perfection of God's Law
¶[Ps 19:7] The law of the Lord is perfect and preserves one’s life. The rules set down by the Lord are reliable and impart wisdom to the inexperienced.
[Ps 19:8] The Lord’s precepts are fair and make one joyful. The Lord’s commands are pure and give insight for life.
[Ps 19:9] The commands to fear the Lord are right and endure forever. The judgments given by the Lord are trustworthy and absolutely just.
[Ps 19:10] They are of greater value than gold, than even a great amount of pure gold; they bring greater delight than honey, than even the sweetest honey from a honeycomb.
[Ps 19:11] Yes, your servant finds moral guidance there; those who obey them receive a rich reward.

## The Psalmist's Prayer for Cleansing and Purity
¶[Ps 19:12] Who can know all his errors? Please do not punish me for sins I am unaware of.
[Ps 19:13] Moreover, keep me from committing flagrant sins; do not allow such sins to control me. Then I will be blameless, and innocent of blatant rebellion.
[Ps 19:14] May my words and my thoughts be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my sheltering rock and my redeemer.
