# Psalms 25

## Introduction: A prayer for guidance
¶[Ps 25:1] By David. O Lord, I come before you in prayer.
[Ps 25:2] My God, I trust in you. Please do not let me be humiliated; do not let my enemies triumphantly rejoice over me!

## Petition for Deliverance
¶[Ps 25:3] Certainly none who rely on you will be humiliated. Those who deal in treachery will be thwarted and humiliated.
[Ps 25:4] Make me understand your ways, O Lord! Teach me your paths!
[Ps 25:5] Guide me into your truth and teach me. For you are the God who delivers me; on you I rely all day long.
[Ps 25:6] Remember your compassionate and faithful deeds, O Lord, for you have always acted in this manner.
[Ps 25:7] Do not hold against me the sins of my youth or my rebellious acts! Because you are faithful to me, extend to me your favor, O Lord!

## God as the Instructor
¶[Ps 25:8] The Lord is both kind and fair; that is why he teaches sinners the right way to live.
[Ps 25:9] May he show the humble what is right! May he teach the humble his way!
[Ps 25:10] The Lord always proves faithful and reliable to those who follow the demands of his covenant.
[Ps 25:11] For the sake of your reputation, O Lord, forgive my sin, because it is great.

## Assurance of blessings for the godly
¶[Ps 25:12] The Lord shows his faithful followers the way they should live.
[Ps 25:13] They experience his favor; their descendants inherit the land.
[Ps 25:14] The Lord’s loyal followers receive his guidance, and he reveals his covenantal demands to them.
[Ps 25:15] I continually look to the Lord for help, for he will free my feet from the enemy’s net.

## Prayer for personal distress
¶[Ps 25:16] Turn toward me and have mercy on me, for I am alone and oppressed!
[Ps 25:17] Deliver me from my distress; rescue me from my suffering!
[Ps 25:18] See my pain and suffering! Forgive all my sins!

## Appeal for protection from enemies
¶[Ps 25:19] Watch my enemies, for they outnumber me; they hate me and want to harm me.
[Ps 25:20] Protect me and deliver me! Please do not let me be humiliated, for I have taken shelter in you!
[Ps 25:21] May integrity and godliness protect me, for I rely on you!
[Ps 25:22] O God, rescue Israel from all their distress!
