# Psalms 27

## Confidence in God's Protection
¶[Ps 27:1] By David. The Lord delivers and vindicates me! I fear no one! The Lord protects my life! I am afraid of no one!
[Ps 27:2] When evil men attack me to devour my flesh, when my adversaries and enemies attack me, they stumble and fall.
[Ps 27:3] Even when an army is deployed against me, I do not fear. Even when war is imminent, I remain confident.

## Desire for God's Presence
¶[Ps 27:4] I have asked the Lord for one thing – this is what I desire! I want to live in the Lord’s house all the days of my life, so I can gaze at the splendor of the Lord and contemplate in his temple.
[Ps 27:5] He will surely give me shelter in the day of danger; he will hide me in his home; he will place me on an inaccessible rocky summit.
[Ps 27:6] Now I will triumph over my enemies who surround me! I will offer sacrifices in his dwelling place and shout for joy! I will sing praises to the Lord!

## Prayer for Guidance and Mercy
¶[Ps 27:7] Hear me, O Lord, when I cry out! Have mercy on me and answer me!
[Ps 27:8] My heart tells me to pray to you, and I do pray to you, O Lord.
[Ps 27:9] Do not reject me! Do not push your servant away in anger! You are my deliverer! Do not forsake or abandon me, O God who vindicates me!

## Trust in God Despite Being Forsaken
¶[Ps 27:10] Even if my father and mother abandoned me, the Lord would take me in.
[Ps 27:11] Teach me how you want me to live, Lord; lead me along a level path because of those who wait to ambush me!

## Prayer for Deliverance From Enemies
¶[Ps 27:12] Do not turn me over to my enemies, for false witnesses who want to destroy me testify against me.
[Ps 27:13] Where would I be if I did not believe I would experience the Lord’s favor in the land of the living?

## Conclusion: Exhortation to Wait on the Lord
¶[Ps 27:14] Rely on the Lord! Be strong and confident! Rely on the Lord!
