# Psalms 32

## Introduction: A Blessed Life
¶[Ps 32:1] By David; a well-written song. How blessed is the one whose rebellious acts are forgiven, whose sin is pardoned!
[Ps 32:2] How blessed is the one whose wrongdoing the Lord does not punish, in whose spirit there is no deceit.

## The Consequences of Sin
¶[Ps 32:3] When I refused to confess my sin, my whole body wasted away, while I groaned in pain all day long.
[Ps 32:4] For day and night you tormented me; you tried to destroy me in the intense heat of summer. (Selah)

## Confession and Forgiveness
¶[Ps 32:5] Then I confessed my sin; I no longer covered up my wrongdoing. I said, “I will confess my rebellious acts to the Lord.” And then you forgave my sins. (Selah)

## Trusting in God
¶[Ps 32:6] For this reason every one of your faithful followers should pray to you while there is a window of opportunity. Certainly when the surging water rises, it will not reach them.
[Ps 32:7] You are my hiding place; you protect me from distress. You surround me with shouts of joy from those celebrating deliverance. (Selah)

## God's Guidance and Instruction
¶[Ps 32:8] I will instruct and teach you about how you should live. I will advise you as I look you in the eye.
[Ps 32:9] Do not be like an unintelligent horse or mule, which will not obey you unless they are controlled by a bridle and bit.

## Contrasting Outcomes
¶[Ps 32:10] An evil person suffers much pain, but the Lord’s faithfulness overwhelms the one who trusts in him.
[Ps 32:11] Rejoice in the Lord and be happy, you who are godly! Shout for joy, all you who are morally upright!
