# Psalms 33

## Introduction: A Call to Praise
¶[Ps 33:1] You godly ones, shout for joy because of the Lord! It is appropriate for the morally upright to offer him praise.
[Ps 33:2] Give thanks to the Lord with the harp! Sing to him to the accompaniment of a ten-stringed instrument!
[Ps 33:3] Sing to him a new song! Play skillfully as you shout out your praises to him!

## Reasons to Praise the Lord
¶[Ps 33:4] For the Lord’s decrees are just, and everything he does is fair.
[Ps 33:5] He promotes equity and justice; the Lord’s faithfulness extends throughout the earth.
[Ps 33:6] By the Lord’s decree the heavens were made; and by the breath of his mouth all the starry hosts.
[Ps 33:7] He piles up the water of the sea; he puts the oceans in storehouses.
[Ps 33:8] Let the whole earth fear the Lord! Let all who live in the world stand in awe of him!
[Ps 33:9] For he spoke, and it came into existence, he issued the decree, and it stood firm.
[Ps 33:10] The Lord frustrates the decisions of the nations; he nullifies the plans of the peoples.
[Ps 33:11] The Lord’s decisions stand forever; his plans abide throughout the ages.
[Ps 33:12] How blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord, the people whom he has chosen to be his special possession.

## God's Watchful Care
¶[Ps 33:13] The Lord watches from heaven; he sees all people.
[Ps 33:14] From the place where he lives he looks carefully at all the earth’s inhabitants.
[Ps 33:15] He is the one who forms every human heart, and takes note of all their actions.
[Ps 33:16] No king is delivered by his vast army; a warrior is not saved by his great might.
[Ps 33:17] A horse disappoints those who trust in it for victory; despite its great strength, it cannot deliver.
[Ps 33:18] Look, the Lord takes notice of his loyal followers, those who wait for him to demonstrate his faithfulness
[Ps 33:19] by saving their lives from death and sustaining them during times of famine.

## Trust and Hope in the Lord
¶[Ps 33:20] We wait for the Lord; he is our deliverer and shield.
[Ps 33:21] For our hearts rejoice in him, for we trust in his holy name.
[Ps 33:22] May we experience your faithfulness, O Lord, for we wait for you.
