# Psalms 34

## A Call to Praise
¶[Ps 34:1] Written by David, when he pretended to be insane before Abimelech, causing the king to send him away. I will praise the Lord at all times; my mouth will continually praise him.
[Ps 34:2] I will boast in the Lord; let the oppressed hear and rejoice!
[Ps 34:3] Magnify the Lord with me! Let’s praise his name together!

## Testimony of God's Deliverance
¶[Ps 34:4] I sought the Lord’s help and he answered me; he delivered me from all my fears.
[Ps 34:5] Look to him and be radiant; do not let your faces be ashamed.
[Ps 34:6] This oppressed man cried out and the Lord heard; he saved him from all his troubles.
[Ps 34:7] The Lord’s angel camps around the Lord’s loyal followers and delivers them.

## The Blessings of Seeking God
¶[Ps 34:8] Taste and see that the Lord is good! How blessed is the one who takes shelter in him!
[Ps 34:9] Fear the Lord, you chosen people of his, for those who fear him lack nothing!
[Ps 34:10] Even young lions sometimes lack food and are hungry, but those who seek the Lord lack no good thing.

## Instruction in the Fear of the Lord
¶[Ps 34:11] Come children! Listen to me! I will teach you what it means to fear the Lord.
[Ps 34:12] Do you want to really live? Would you love to live a long, happy life?
[Ps 34:13] Then make sure you don’t speak evil words or use deceptive speech!
[Ps 34:14] Turn away from evil and do what is right! Strive for peace and promote it!

## God's Attentiveness to the Righteous and Unrighteous
¶[Ps 34:15] The Lord pays attention to the godly and hears their cry for help.
[Ps 34:16] But the Lord opposes evildoers and wipes out all memory of them from the earth.
[Ps 34:17] The godly cry out and the Lord hears; he saves them from all their troubles.
[Ps 34:18] The Lord is near the brokenhearted; he delivers those who are discouraged.

## God's Deliverance and Redemption
¶[Ps 34:19] The godly face many dangers, but the Lord saves them from each one of them.
[Ps 34:20] He protects all his bones; not one of them is broken.
[Ps 34:21] Evil people self-destruct; those who hate the godly are punished.
[Ps 34:22] The Lord rescues his servants; all who take shelter in him escape punishment.
