# Psalms 35

## Invocation and Supplication
¶`Ps 35:1` By David. O Lord, fight those who fight with me! Attack those who attack me!
`Ps 35:2` Grab your small shield and large shield, and rise up to help me!
`Ps 35:3` Use your spear and lance against those who chase me! Assure me with these words: “I am your deliverer!”

## The Oppression and Injustice of the Enemies
¶`Ps 35:4` May those who seek my life be embarrassed and humiliated! May those who plan to harm me be turned back and ashamed!
`Ps 35:5` May they be like wind-driven chaff, as the Lord’s angel attacks them!
`Ps 35:6` May their path be dark and slippery, as the Lord’s angel chases them!
`Ps 35:7` I did not harm them, but they hid a net to catch me and dug a pit to trap me.
`Ps 35:8` Let destruction take them by surprise! Let the net they hid catch them! Let them fall into destruction!

## Trust in the Lord and Rejoicing Over Deliverance
¶`Ps 35:9` Then I will rejoice in the Lord and be happy because of his deliverance.
`Ps 35:10` With all my strength I will say, “O Lord, who can compare to you? You rescue the oppressed from those who try to overpower them; the oppressed and needy from those who try to rob them.”

## Debating the Unfair Treatment by Enemies
¶`Ps 35:11` Violent men perjure themselves, and falsely accuse me.
`Ps 35:12` They repay me evil for the good I have done; I am overwhelmed with sorrow.
`Ps 35:13` When they were sick, I wore sackcloth, and refrained from eating food. (If I am lying, may my prayers go unanswered!)
`Ps 35:14` I mourned for them as I would for a friend or my brother. I bowed down in sorrow as if I were mourning for my mother.

## The Mocking Conduct of the Enemies
¶`Ps 35:15` But when I stumbled, they rejoiced and gathered together; they gathered together to ambush me. They tore at me without stopping to rest.
`Ps 35:16` When I tripped, they taunted me relentlessly, and tried to bite me.

## A Cry for God's Justice and Deliverance
¶`Ps 35:17` O Lord, how long are you going to watch this? Rescue me from their destructive attacks; guard my life from the young lions!
`Ps 35:18` Then I will give you thanks in the great assembly; I will praise you before a large crowd of people!
`Ps 35:19` Do not let those who are my enemies for no reason gloat over me! Do not let those who hate me without cause carry out their wicked schemes!
`Ps 35:20` For they do not try to make peace with others, but plan ways to deceive those who live peacefully in the land.
`Ps 35:21` They are ready to devour me; they say, “Aha! Aha! We’ve got you!”

## Affirmation of Faith and Confidence in the Lord
¶`Ps 35:22` But you take notice, Lord; do not be silent! O Lord, do not remain far away from me!
`Ps 35:23` Rouse yourself, wake up and vindicate me! My God and Lord, defend my just cause!
`Ps 35:24` Vindicate me by your justice, O Lord my God! Do not let them gloat over me!
`Ps 35:25` Do not let them say to themselves, “Aha! We have what we wanted!” Do not let them say, “We have devoured him!”

## Thanksgiving, Praise, and Testimony to God's Deliverance
¶`Ps 35:26` May those who rejoice in my troubles be totally embarrassed and ashamed! May those who arrogantly taunt me be covered with shame and humiliation!
`Ps 35:27` May those who desire my vindication shout for joy and rejoice! May they continually say, “May the Lord be praised, for he wants his servant to be secure.”
`Ps 35:28` Then I will tell others about your justice, and praise you all day long.
