# Psalms 37

## Introduction: The Theme of Trusting in the Lord
¶`Ps 37:1` By David. Do not fret when wicked men seem to succeed! Do not envy evildoers!
`Ps 37:2` For they will quickly dry up like grass, and wither away like plants.

## The Righteous versus the Wicked: The Choice of Lifestyle
¶`Ps 37:3` Trust in the Lord and do what is right! Settle in the land and maintain your integrity!
`Ps 37:4` Then you will take delight in the Lord, and he will answer your prayers.
`Ps 37:5` Commit your future to the Lord! Trust in him, and he will act on your behalf.
`Ps 37:6` He will vindicate you in broad daylight, and publicly defend your just cause.
`Ps 37:7` Wait patiently for the Lord! Wait confidently for him! Do not fret over the apparent success of a sinner, a man who carries out wicked schemes!
`Ps 37:8` Do not be angry and frustrated! Do not fret! That only leads to trouble!

## The Inevitable End of the Wicked
¶`Ps 37:9` Wicked men will be wiped out, but those who rely on the Lord are the ones who will possess the land.
`Ps 37:10` Evil men will soon disappear; you will stare at the spot where they once were, but they will be gone.
`Ps 37:11` But the oppressed will possess the land and enjoy great prosperity.
`Ps 37:12` Evil men plot against the godly and viciously attack them.
`Ps 37:13` The Lord laughs in disgust at them, for he knows that their day is coming.
`Ps 37:14` Evil men draw their swords and prepare their bows, to bring down the oppressed and needy, and to slaughter those who are godly.
`Ps 37:15` Their swords will pierce their own hearts, and their bows will be broken.

## The Blessings of the Righteous
¶`Ps 37:16` The little bit that a godly man owns is better than the wealth of many evil men,
`Ps 37:17` for evil men will lose their power, but the Lord sustains the godly.
`Ps 37:18` The Lord watches over the innocent day by day and they possess a permanent inheritance.
`Ps 37:19` They will not be ashamed when hard times come; when famine comes they will have enough to eat.
`Ps 37:20` But evil men will die; the Lord’s enemies will be incinerated – they will go up in smoke.
`Ps 37:21` Evil men borrow, but do not repay their debt, but the godly show compassion and are generous.
`Ps 37:22` Surely those favored by the Lord will possess the land, but those rejected by him will be wiped out.
`Ps 37:23` The Lord grants success to the one whose behavior he finds commendable.
`Ps 37:24` Even if he trips, he will not fall headlong, for the Lord holds his hand.

## The Faithfulness of the Lord towards the Righteous
¶`Ps 37:25` I was once young, now I am old. I have never seen a godly man abandoned, or his children forced to search for food.
`Ps 37:26` All day long he shows compassion and lends to others, and his children are blessed.
`Ps 37:27` Turn away from evil! Do what is right! Then you will enjoy lasting security.
`Ps 37:28` For the Lord promotes justice, and never abandons his faithful followers. They are permanently secure, but the children of evil men are wiped out.
`Ps 37:29` The godly will possess the land and will dwell in it permanently.

## Wisdom and the Righteous
¶`Ps 37:30` The godly speak wise words and promote justice.
`Ps 37:31` The law of their God controls their thinking; their feet do not slip.
`Ps 37:32` Evil men set an ambush for the godly and try to kill them.
`Ps 37:33` But the Lord does not surrender the godly, or allow them to be condemned in a court of law.

## The Final Comparison of the Wicked and Righteous
¶`Ps 37:34` Rely on the Lord! Obey his commands! Then he will permit you to possess the land; you will see the demise of evil men.
`Ps 37:35` I have seen ruthless evil men growing in influence, like a green tree grows in its native soil.
`Ps 37:36` But then one passes by, and suddenly they have disappeared! I looked for them, but they could not be found.
`Ps 37:37` Take note of the one who has integrity! Observe the upright! For the one who promotes peace has a future.
`Ps 37:38` Sinful rebels are totally destroyed; evil men have no future.
`Ps 37:39` But the Lord delivers the godly; he protects them in times of trouble.
`Ps 37:40` The Lord helps them and rescues them; he rescues them from evil men and delivers them, for they seek his protection.
