# Psalms 39

## Introduction: Awareness of Frailty
¶`Ps 39:1` For the music director, Jeduthun; a psalm of David. I decided, “I will watch what I say and make sure I do not sin with my tongue. I will put a muzzle over my mouth while in the presence of an evil man.”
`Ps 39:2` I was stone silent; I held back the urge to speak. My frustration grew;
`Ps 39:3` my anxiety intensified. As I thought about it, I became impatient. Finally I spoke these words:

## Contemplating the Brevity of Life
¶`Ps 39:4` “O Lord, help me understand my mortality and the brevity of life! Let me realize how quickly my life will pass!
`Ps 39:5` Look, you make my days short-lived, and my life span is nothing from your perspective. Surely all people, even those who seem secure, are nothing but vapor. (Selah)
`Ps 39:6` Surely people go through life as mere ghosts. Surely they accumulate worthless wealth without knowing who will eventually haul it away.”

## Prayer for Deliverance
¶`Ps 39:7` But now, O Lord, upon what am I relying? You are my only hope!
`Ps 39:8` Deliver me from all my sins of rebellion! Do not make me the object of fools’ insults!
`Ps 39:9` I am silent and cannot open my mouth because of what you have done.
`Ps 39:10` Please stop wounding me! You have almost beaten me to death!
`Ps 39:11` You severely discipline people for their sins; like a moth you slowly devour their strength. Surely all people are a mere vapor. (Selah)

## Closing Appeal: A Cry for Compassion
¶`Ps 39:12` Hear my prayer, O Lord! Listen to my cry for help! Do not ignore my sobbing! For I am a foreign resident with you, a temporary settler, just as all my ancestors were.
`Ps 39:13` Turn your angry gaze away from me, so I can be happy before I pass away.
