# Psalms 41

## Introduction and Blessing for the Compassionate
¶`Ps 41:1` For the music director; a psalm of David. How blessed is the one who treats the poor properly! When trouble comes, may the Lord deliver him.
`Ps 41:2` May the Lord protect him and save his life! May he be blessed in the land! Do not turn him over to his enemies!
`Ps 41:3` The Lord supports him on his sickbed; you have healed him from his illness.

## David's Personal Struggles and Plea for Mercy
¶`Ps 41:4` As for me, I said: “O Lord, have mercy on me! Heal me, for I have sinned against you!
`Ps 41:5` My enemies ask this cruel question about me, ‘When will he finally die and be forgotten?’
`Ps 41:6` When someone comes to visit, he pretends to be friendly; he thinks of ways to defame me, and when he leaves he slanders me.
`Ps 41:7` All who hate me whisper insults about me to one another; they plan ways to harm me.
`Ps 41:8` They say, ‘An awful disease overwhelms him, and now that he is bed-ridden he will never recover.’
`Ps 41:9` Even my close friend whom I trusted, he who shared meals with me, has turned against me.
`Ps 41:10` As for you, O Lord, have mercy on me and raise me up, so I can pay them back!”

## Confidence in God's Favor and Vindication
¶`Ps 41:11` By this I know that you are pleased with me, for my enemy does not triumph over me.
`Ps 41:12` As for me, you uphold me because of my integrity; you allow me permanent access to your presence.

## Conclusion and Doxology
¶`Ps 41:13` The Lord God of Israel deserves praise in the future and forevermore! We agree! We agree!
