# Psalms 42

## Longing for God in the Midst of Distress
¶`Ps 42:1` For the music director; a well-written song by the Korahites. As a deer longs for streams of water, so I long for you, O God!
`Ps 42:2` I thirst for God, for the living God. I say, “When will I be able to go and appear in God’s presence?”
`Ps 42:3` I cannot eat, I weep day and night; all day long they say to me, “Where is your God?”
`Ps 42:4` I will remember and weep! For I was once walking along with the great throng to the temple of God, shouting and giving thanks along with the crowd as we celebrated the holy festival.

## Hope in the Face of Despair
¶`Ps 42:5` Why are you depressed, O my soul? Why are you upset? Wait for God! For I will again give thanks to my God for his saving intervention.
`Ps 42:6` I am depressed, so I will pray to you while in the region of the upper Jordan, from Hermon, from Mount Mizar.
`Ps 42:7` One deep stream calls out to another at the sound of your waterfalls; all your billows and waves overwhelm me.
`Ps 42:8` By day the Lord decrees his loyal love, and by night he gives me a song, a prayer to the God of my life.

## Renewed Lament and Hope
¶`Ps 42:9` I will pray to God, my high ridge: “Why do you ignore me? Why must I walk around mourning because my enemies oppress me?”
`Ps 42:10` My enemies’ taunts cut into me to the bone, as they say to me all day long, “Where is your God?”
`Ps 42:11` Why are you depressed, O my soul? Why are you upset? Wait for God! For I will again give thanks to my God for his saving intervention.
