# Psalms 44

## Introduction: Confidence in God's Help
¶`Ps 44:1` For the music director; by the Korahites, a well-written song. O God, we have clearly heard; our ancestors have told us what you did in their days, in ancient times.
`Ps 44:2` You, by your power, defeated nations and settled our fathers on their land; you crushed the people living there and enabled our ancestors to occupy it.
`Ps 44:3` For they did not conquer the land by their swords, and they did not prevail by their strength, but rather by your power, strength and good favor, for you were partial to them.

## Faith Declared: Trust in God for Deliverance
¶`Ps 44:4` You are my king, O God! Decree Jacob’s deliverance!
`Ps 44:5` By your power we will drive back our enemies; by your strength we will trample down our foes!
`Ps 44:6` For I do not trust in my bow, and I do not prevail by my sword.
`Ps 44:7` For you deliver us from our enemies; you humiliate those who hate us.
`Ps 44:8` In God we boast all day long, and we will continually give thanks to your name. (Selah)

## Lamentation: Suffering Despite Righteousness
¶`Ps 44:9` But you rejected and embarrassed us! You did not go into battle with our armies.
`Ps 44:10` You made us retreat from the enemy. Those who hate us take whatever they want from us.
`Ps 44:11` You handed us over like sheep to be eaten; you scattered us among the nations.
`Ps 44:12` You sold your people for a pittance; you did not ask a high price for them.
`Ps 44:13` You made us an object of disdain to our neighbors; those who live on our borders taunt and insult us.
`Ps 44:14` You made us an object of ridicule among the nations; foreigners treat us with contempt.
`Ps 44:15` All day long I feel humiliated and am overwhelmed with shame,
`Ps 44:16` before the vindictive enemy who ridicules and insults me.

## Innocent Plea: Assertion of Loyalty to God
¶`Ps 44:17` All this has happened to us, even though we have not rejected you or violated your covenant with us.
`Ps 44:18` We have not been unfaithful, nor have we disobeyed your commands.
`Ps 44:19` Yet you have battered us, leaving us a heap of ruins overrun by wild dogs; you have covered us with darkness.
`Ps 44:20` If we had rejected our God, and spread out our hands in prayer to another god,
`Ps 44:21` would not God discover it, for he knows one’s thoughts?
`Ps 44:22` Yet because of you we are killed all day long; we are treated like sheep at the slaughtering block.

## Divine Intervention: A Call for God's Rescue
¶`Ps 44:23` Rouse yourself! Why do you sleep, O Lord? Wake up! Do not reject us forever!
`Ps 44:24` Why do you look the other way, and ignore the way we are oppressed and mistreated?
`Ps 44:25` For we lie in the dirt, with our bellies pressed to the ground.
`Ps 44:26` Rise up and help us! Rescue us because of your loyal love!
