# Psalms 45

## Introduction: Praise to the King
¶`Ps 45:1` For the music director; according to the tune of “Lilies;” by the Korahites, a well-written poem, a love song. My heart is stirred by a beautiful song. I say, “I have composed this special song for the king; my tongue is as skilled as the stylus of an experienced scribe.”
`Ps 45:2` You are the most handsome of all men! You speak in an impressive and fitting manner! For this reason God grants you continual blessings.

## The King's Might and Conquests
¶`Ps 45:3` Strap your sword to your thigh, O warrior! Appear in your majestic splendor!
`Ps 45:4` Appear in your majesty and be victorious! Ride forth for the sake of what is right, on behalf of justice! Then your right hand will accomplish mighty acts!
`Ps 45:5` Your arrows are sharp and penetrate the hearts of the king’s enemies. Nations fall at your feet.

## The Divine Throne and Righteous Rule
¶`Ps 45:6` Your throne, O God, is permanent. The scepter of your kingdom is a scepter of justice.
`Ps 45:7` You love justice and hate evil. For this reason God, your God, has anointed you with the oil of joy, elevating you above your companions.

## The King's Splendor and Luxury
¶`Ps 45:8` All your garments are perfumed with myrrh, aloes, and cassia. From the luxurious palaces comes the music of stringed instruments that makes you happy.
`Ps 45:9` Princesses are among your honored women, your bride stands at your right hand, wearing jewelry made with gold from Ophir.

## The Bride's Call to Loyalty and submission
¶`Ps 45:10` Listen, O princess! Observe and pay attention! Forget your homeland and your family!
`Ps 45:11` Then the king will be attracted by your beauty. After all, he is your master! Submit to him!
`Ps 45:12` Rich people from Tyre will seek your favor by bringing a gift.

## The Bride's Entrance and Beauty
¶`Ps 45:13` The princess looks absolutely magnificent, decked out in pearls and clothed in a brocade trimmed with gold.
`Ps 45:14` In embroidered robes she is escorted to the king. Her attendants, the maidens of honor who follow her, are led before you.
`Ps 45:15` They are bubbling with joy as they walk in procession and enter the royal palace.

## The Future Royal Lineage
¶`Ps 45:16` Your sons will carry on the dynasty of your ancestors; you will make them princes throughout the land.
`Ps 45:17` I will proclaim your greatness through the coming years, then the nations will praise you forever.
