# Psalms 46

## Introduction: The Powerful and Loving God
¶`Ps 46:1` For the music director; by the Korahites; according to the alamoth style; a song. God is our strong refuge; he is truly our helper in times of trouble.

## The Peaceful City of God
¶`Ps 46:2` For this reason we do not fear when the earth shakes, and the mountains tumble into the depths of the sea,
`Ps 46:3` when its waves crash and foam, and the mountains shake before the surging sea. (Selah)

## The River of God's Presence
¶`Ps 46:4` The river’s channels bring joy to the city of God, the special, holy dwelling place of the Most High.
`Ps 46:5` God lives within it, it cannot be moved. God rescues it at the break of dawn.

## God's Sovereignty in the Midst of Turmoil
¶`Ps 46:6` Nations are in uproar, kingdoms are overthrown. God gives a shout, the earth dissolves.
`Ps 46:7` The Lord of Heaven’s Armies is on our side! The God of Jacob is our protector! (Selah)

## Witnessing the Works of the Lord
¶`Ps 46:8` Come! Witness the exploits of the Lord, who brings devastation to the earth!
`Ps 46:9` He brings an end to wars throughout the earth; he shatters the bow and breaks the spear; he burns the shields with fire.

## The Call to Be Still and Acknowledge God
¶`Ps 46:10` He says, “Stop your striving and recognize that I am God! I will be exalted over the nations! I will be exalted over the earth!”

## Reaffirming God's Protection
¶`Ps 46:11` The Lord of Heaven’s Armies is on our side! The God of Jacob is our protector! (Selah)
