# Psalms 48

## Praise to the Lord and Zion
¶[Ps 48:1] A song, a psalm by the Korahites. The Lord is great and certainly worthy of praise in the city of our God, his holy hill.
[Ps 48:2] It is lofty and pleasing to look at, a source of joy to the whole earth. Mount Zion resembles the peaks of Zaphon; it is the city of the great king.
[Ps 48:3] God is in its fortresses; he reveals himself as its defender.

## The Lord's Defense of Zion
¶[Ps 48:4] For look, the kings assemble; they advance together.
[Ps 48:5] As soon as they see, they are shocked; they are terrified, they quickly retreat.
[Ps 48:6] Look at them shake uncontrollably, like a woman writhing in childbirth.
[Ps 48:7] With an east wind you shatter the large ships.
[Ps 48:8] We heard about God’s mighty deeds, now we have seen them, in the city of the Lord of Heaven’s Armies, in the city of our God. God makes it permanently secure. (Selah)

## Meditation on God's Steadfast Love and Faithfulness
¶[Ps 48:9] We reflect on your loyal love, O God, within your temple.
[Ps 48:10] The praise you receive as far away as the ends of the earth is worthy of your reputation, O God. You execute justice!
[Ps 48:11] Mount Zion rejoices; the towns of Judah are happy, because of your acts of judgment.

## Encouragement to Walk Through and Tell of Zion's Glory
¶[Ps 48:12] Walk around Zion! Encircle it! Count its towers!
[Ps 48:13] Consider its defenses! Walk through its fortresses, so you can tell the next generation about it!
[Ps 48:14] For God, our God, is our defender forever! He guides us!
