# Psalms 49

## Introduction: The Universality and Importance of the Message
¶[Ps 49:1] For the music director, a psalm by the Korahites. Listen to this, all you nations! Pay attention, all you inhabitants of the world!
[Ps 49:2] Pay attention, all you people, both rich and poor!
[Ps 49:3] I will declare a wise saying; I will share my profound thoughts.
[Ps 49:4] I will learn a song that imparts wisdom; I will then sing my insightful song to the accompaniment of a harp.

## The Challenge of Wealth and Mortality
¶[Ps 49:5] Why should I be afraid in times of trouble, when the sinful deeds of deceptive men threaten to overwhelm me?
[Ps 49:6] They trust in their wealth and boast in their great riches.
[Ps 49:7] Certainly a man cannot rescue his brother; he cannot pay God an adequate ransom price
[Ps 49:8] (the ransom price for a human life is too high, and people go to their final destiny),
[Ps 49:9] so that he might continue to live forever and not experience death.
[Ps 49:10] Surely one sees that even wise people die; fools and spiritually insensitive people all pass away and leave their wealth to others.
[Ps 49:11] Their grave becomes their permanent residence, their eternal dwelling place. They name their lands after themselves,
[Ps 49:12] but, despite their wealth, people do not last, they are like animals that perish.

## The Fate of the Foolish Wealthy
¶[Ps 49:13] This is the destiny of fools, and of those who approve of their philosophy. (Selah)
[Ps 49:14] They will travel to Sheol like sheep, with death as their shepherd. The godly will rule over them when the day of vindication dawns; Sheol will consume their bodies and they will no longer live in impressive houses.
[Ps 49:15] But God will rescue my life from the power of Sheol; certainly he will pull me to safety. (Selah)
[Ps 49:16] Do not be afraid when a man becomes rich and his wealth multiplies!
[Ps 49:17] For he will take nothing with him when he dies; his wealth will not follow him down into the grave.
[Ps 49:18] He pronounces this blessing on himself while he is alive: “May men praise you, for you have done well!”
[Ps 49:19] But he will join his ancestors; they will never again see the light of day.
[Ps 49:20] Wealthy people do not understand; they are like animals that perish.
