# Psalms 50

## Introduction: God's Call to Worship
¶`Ps 50:1` A psalm by Asaph. El, God, the Lord has spoken, and summoned the earth to come from the east and west.
`Ps 50:2` From Zion, the most beautiful of all places, God has come in splendor.
`Ps 50:3` “May our God come and not be silent.” Consuming fire goes ahead of him and all around him a storm rages.
`Ps 50:4` He summons the heavens above, as well as the earth, so that he might judge his people.
`Ps 50:5` He says: “Assemble my covenant people before me, those who ratified a covenant with me by sacrifice!”
`Ps 50:6` The heavens declare his fairness, for God is judge. (Selah)

## The Righteous and their sacrifices
¶`Ps 50:7` He says: “Listen my people! I am speaking! Listen Israel! I am accusing you! I am God, your God!
`Ps 50:8` I am not condemning you because of your sacrifices, or because of your burnt sacrifices that you continually offer me.
`Ps 50:9` I do not need to take a bull from your household or goats from your sheepfolds.
`Ps 50:10` For every wild animal in the forest belongs to me, as well as the cattle that graze on a thousand hills.
`Ps 50:11` I keep track of every bird in the hills, and the insects of the field are mine.
`Ps 50:12` Even if I were hungry, I would not tell you, for the world and all it contains belong to me.
`Ps 50:13` Do I eat the flesh of bulls? Do I drink the blood of goats?
`Ps 50:14` Present to God a thank-offering! Repay your vows to the Most High!
`Ps 50:15` Pray to me when you are in trouble! I will deliver you, and you will honor me!”

## The Wicked and their deeds
¶`Ps 50:16` God says this to the evildoer: “How can you declare my commands, and talk about my covenant?
`Ps 50:17` For you hate instruction and reject my words.
`Ps 50:18` When you see a thief, you join him; you associate with men who are unfaithful to their wives.
`Ps 50:19` You do damage with words, and use your tongue to deceive.
`Ps 50:20` You plot against your brother; you slander your own brother.

## God's Warning and Final Judgment
¶`Ps 50:21` When you did these things, I was silent, so you thought I was exactly like you. But now I will condemn you and state my case against you!
`Ps 50:22` Carefully consider this, you who reject God! Otherwise I will rip you to shreds and no one will be able to rescue you.
`Ps 50:23` Whoever presents a thank-offering honors me. To whoever obeys my commands, I will reveal my power to deliver.”
