# Psalms 51

## Introduction: A Plea for Mercy and Forgiveness
¶[Ps 51:1] For the music director; a psalm of David, written when Nathan the prophet confronted him after David’s affair with Bathsheba. Have mercy on me, O God, because of your loyal love! Because of your great compassion, wipe away my rebellious acts!
[Ps 51:2] Wash away my wrongdoing! Cleanse me of my sin!

## Acknowledgment of Sin and Guilt
¶[Ps 51:3] For I am aware of my rebellious acts; I am forever conscious of my sin.
[Ps 51:4] Against you – you above all – I have sinned; I have done what is evil in your sight. So you are just when you confront me; you are right when you condemn me.
[Ps 51:5] Look, I was guilty of sin from birth, a sinner the moment my mother conceived me.
[Ps 51:6] Look, you desire integrity in the inner man; you want me to possess wisdom.

## Prayer for Renewal and Restoration
¶[Ps 51:7] Cleanse me with hyssop and I will be pure; wash me and I will be whiter than snow.
[Ps 51:8] Grant me the ultimate joy of being forgiven! May the bones you crushed rejoice!
[Ps 51:9] Hide your face from my sins! Wipe away all my guilt!
[Ps 51:10] Create for me a pure heart, O God! Renew a resolute spirit within me!
[Ps 51:11] Do not reject me! Do not take your holy Spirit away from me!
[Ps 51:12] Let me again experience the joy of your deliverance! Sustain me by giving me the desire to obey!

## Commitment to Praise and Teach
¶[Ps 51:13] Then I will teach rebels your merciful ways, and sinners will turn to you.
[Ps 51:14] Rescue me from the guilt of murder, O God, the God who delivers me! Then my tongue will shout for joy because of your righteousness.
[Ps 51:15] O Lord, give me the words! Then my mouth will praise you.

## True Repentance and Sacrifice
¶[Ps 51:16] Certainly you do not want a sacrifice, or else I would offer it; you do not desire a burnt sacrifice.
[Ps 51:17] The sacrifices God desires are a humble spirit – O God, a humble and repentant heart you will not reject.

## Petition for Favor and Prosperity of Zion
¶[Ps 51:18] Because you favor Zion, do what is good for her! Fortify the walls of Jerusalem!
[Ps 51:19] Then you will accept the proper sacrifices, burnt sacrifices and whole offerings; then bulls will be sacrificed on your altar.
