# Psalms 55

## Introduction: A Cry for Help
¶[Ps 55:1] For the music director, to be accompanied by stringed instruments; a well-written song by David. Listen, O God, to my prayer! Do not ignore my appeal for mercy!
[Ps 55:2] Pay attention to me and answer me! I am so upset and distressed, I am beside myself,
[Ps 55:3] because of what the enemy says, and because of how the wicked pressure me, for they hurl trouble down upon me and angrily attack me.

## The Betrayal by a Trusted Friend
¶[Ps 55:4] My heart beats violently within me; the horrors of death overcome me.
[Ps 55:5] Fear and panic overpower me; terror overwhelms me.
[Ps 55:6] I say, “I wish I had wings like a dove! I would fly away and settle in a safe place!
[Ps 55:7] Look, I will escape to a distant place; I will stay in the wilderness. (Selah)
[Ps 55:8] I will hurry off to a place that is safe from the strong wind and the gale.”

## The Corruption and Deceit in the City
¶[Ps 55:9] Confuse them, O Lord! Frustrate their plans! For I see violence and conflict in the city.
[Ps 55:10] Day and night they walk around on its walls, while wickedness and destruction are within it.
[Ps 55:11] Disaster is within it; violence and deceit do not depart from its public square.

## The Broken Bond of Friendship
¶[Ps 55:12] Indeed, it is not an enemy who insults me, or else I could bear it; it is not one who hates me who arrogantly taunts me, or else I could hide from him.
[Ps 55:13] But it is you, a man like me, my close friend in whom I confided.
[Ps 55:14] We would share personal thoughts with each other; in God’s temple we would walk together among the crowd.
[Ps 55:15] May death destroy them! May they go down alive into Sheol! For evil is in their dwelling place and in their midst.

## Assurance in God's Help
¶[Ps 55:16] As for me, I will call out to God, and the Lord will deliver me.
[Ps 55:17] During the evening, morning, and noontime I will lament and moan, and he will hear me.
[Ps 55:18] He will rescue me and protect me from those who attack me, even though they greatly outnumber me.
[Ps 55:19] God, the one who has reigned as king from long ago, will hear and humiliate them. (Selah) They refuse to change, and do not fear God.

## The False Friend's Fate and the Faithful's Resolution
¶[Ps 55:20] He attacks his friends; he breaks his solemn promises to them.
[Ps 55:21] His words are as smooth as butter, but he harbors animosity in his heart. His words seem softer than oil, but they are really like sharp swords.
[Ps 55:22] Throw your burden upon the Lord, and he will sustain you. He will never allow the godly to be shaken.
[Ps 55:23] But you, O God, will bring them down to the deep Pit. Violent and deceitful people will not live even half a normal lifespan. But as for me, I trust in you.
