# Psalms 56

## Trust in God Amidst Persecution
¶`Ps 56:1` For the music director; according to the yonath-elem-rekhoqim style; a prayer of David, written when the Philistines captured him in Gath. Have mercy on me, O God, for men are attacking me! All day long hostile enemies are tormenting me.
`Ps 56:2` Those who anticipate my defeat attack me all day long. Indeed, many are fighting against me, O Exalted One.

## Keeping Faith in God's Protection
¶`Ps 56:3` When I am afraid, I trust in you.
`Ps 56:4` In God – I boast in his promise – in God I trust, I am not afraid. What can mere men do to me?

## The Continuous Plots of Oppressors
¶`Ps 56:5` All day long they cause me trouble; they make a habit of plotting my demise.
`Ps 56:6` They stalk and lurk; they watch my every step, as they prepare to take my life.
`Ps 56:7` Because they are bent on violence, do not let them escape! In your anger bring down the nations, O God!

## Acknowledgment of God's Sovereignty
¶`Ps 56:8` You keep track of my misery. Put my tears in your leather container! Are they not recorded in your scroll?
`Ps 56:9` My enemies will turn back when I cry out to you for help; I know that God is on my side.

## Rejoicing in God's Deliverance
¶`Ps 56:10` In God – I boast in his promise – in the Lord – I boast in his promise –
`Ps 56:11` in God I trust, I am not afraid. What can mere men do to me?

## Gratitude for God's Help
¶`Ps 56:12` I am obligated to fulfill the vows I made to you, O God; I will give you the thank-offerings you deserve,
`Ps 56:13` when you deliver my life from death. You keep my feet from stumbling, so that I might serve God as I enjoy life.
