# Psalms 59

## Introduction
¶`Ps 59:1` For the music director; according to the al-tashcheth style; a prayer of David, written when Saul sent men to surround his house and murder him. Deliver me from my enemies, my God! Protect me from those who attack me!
`Ps 59:2` Deliver me from evildoers! Rescue me from violent men!

## Wrongful Persecution Described
¶`Ps 59:3` For look, they wait to ambush me; powerful men stalk me, but not because I have rebelled or sinned, O Lord.
`Ps 59:4` Though I have done nothing wrong, they are anxious to attack. Spring into action and help me! Take notice of me!

## Appeal for God's Intervention
¶`Ps 59:5` You, O Lord God of Heaven’s Armies, the God of Israel, rouse yourself and punish all the nations! Have no mercy on any treacherous evildoers! (Selah)

## Comparing Enemies to Wild Animals
¶`Ps 59:6` They return in the evening; they growl like a dog and prowl around outside the city.
`Ps 59:7` Look, they hurl insults at me and openly threaten to kill me, for they say, “Who hears?”

## Confidence in God as a Stronghold
¶`Ps 59:8` But you, O Lord, laugh in disgust at them; you taunt all the nations.
`Ps 59:9` You are my source of strength! I will wait for you! For God is my refuge.
`Ps 59:10` The God who loves me will help me; God will enable me to triumph over my enemies.

## The Desire for Deferred Judgment
¶`Ps 59:11` Do not strike them dead suddenly, because then my people might forget the lesson. Use your power to make them homeless vagabonds and then bring them down, O Lord who shields us!
`Ps 59:12` They speak sinful words. So let them be trapped by their own pride and by the curses and lies they speak!
`Ps 59:13` Angrily wipe them out! Wipe them out so they vanish! Let them know that God rules in Jacob and to the ends of the earth! (Selah)

## A Song of Praise
¶`Ps 59:14` They return in the evening; they growl like a dog and prowl around outside the city.
`Ps 59:15` They wander around looking for something to eat; they refuse to sleep until they are full.

## Trust and Exaltation of the Lord
¶`Ps 59:16` As for me, I will sing about your strength; I will praise your loyal love in the morning. For you are my refuge and my place of shelter when I face trouble.
`Ps 59:17` You are my source of strength! I will sing praises to you! For God is my refuge, the God who loves me.
