# Psalms 60

## Introduction: A Cry for God's Help
¶`Ps 60:1` For the music director; according to the shushan-eduth style; a prayer of David written to instruct others. It was written when he fought against Aram Naharaim and Aram-Zobah. That was when Joab turned back and struck down 12,000Edomites in the Valley of Salt. O God, you have rejected us. You suddenly turned on us in your anger. Please restore us!
`Ps 60:2` You made the earth quake; you split it open. Repair its breaches, for it is ready to fall.
`Ps 60:3` You have made your people experience hard times; you have made us drink intoxicating wine.

## God's Promised Victory
¶`Ps 60:4` You have given your loyal followers a rallying flag, so that they might seek safety from the bow. (Selah)
`Ps 60:5` Deliver by your power and answer me, so that the ones you love may be safe.
`Ps 60:6` God has spoken in his sanctuary: “I will triumph! I will parcel out Shechem; the Valley of Succoth I will measure off.
`Ps 60:7` Gilead belongs to me, as does Manasseh! Ephraim is my helmet, Judah my royal scepter.
`Ps 60:8` Moab is my washbasin. I will make Edom serve me. I will shout in triumph over Philistia.”

## Confident Appeal for God's Presence and Assistance
¶`Ps 60:9` Who will lead me into the fortified city? Who will bring me to Edom?
`Ps 60:10` Have you not rejected us, O God? O God, you do not go into battle with our armies.
`Ps 60:11` Give us help against the enemy, for any help men might offer is futile.
`Ps 60:12` By God’s power we will conquer; he will trample down our enemies.
