# Psalms 62

## Introduction: Confidence in God Alone
¶`Ps 62:1` For the music director, Jeduthun; a psalm of David. For God alone I patiently wait; he is the one who delivers me.
`Ps 62:2` He alone is my protector and deliverer. He is my refuge; I will not be upended.

## Adversaries and Their Deceitful Actions
¶`Ps 62:3` How long will you threaten a man? All of you are murderers, as dangerous as a leaning wall or an unstable fence.
`Ps 62:4` They spend all their time planning how to bring him down. They love to use deceit; they pronounce blessings with their mouths, but inwardly they utter curses. (Selah)

## Reaffirmation of Trust in God
¶`Ps 62:5` Patiently wait for God alone, my soul! For he is the one who gives me hope.
`Ps 62:6` He alone is my protector and deliverer. He is my refuge; I will not be shaken.
`Ps 62:7` God delivers me and exalts me; God is my strong protector and my shelter.
`Ps 62:8` Trust in him at all times, you people! Pour out your hearts before him! God is our shelter! (Selah)

## Contrast Between God's Power and Human Weakness
¶`Ps 62:9` Men are nothing but a mere breath; human beings are unreliable. When they are weighed in the scales, all of them together are lighter than air.
`Ps 62:10` Do not trust in what you can gain by oppression! Do not put false confidence in what you can gain by robbery! If wealth increases, do not become attached to it!

## Conclusion: God's Strength and Loving Kindness
¶`Ps 62:11` God has declared one principle; two principles I have heard: God is strong,
`Ps 62:12` and you, O Lord, demonstrate loyal love. For you repay men for what they do.
