# Psalms 65

## Praise and Thanksgiving for God's Righteousness
¶`Ps 65:1` For the music director; a psalm of David, a song. Praise awaits you, O God, in Zion. Vows made to you are fulfilled.
`Ps 65:2` You hear prayers; all people approach you.
`Ps 65:3` Our record of sins overwhelms me, but you forgive our acts of rebellion.
`Ps 65:4` How blessed is the one whom you choose, and allow to live in your palace courts. May we be satisfied with the good things of your house – your holy palace.

## God's Power in Creation
¶`Ps 65:5` You answer our prayers by performing awesome acts of deliverance, O God, our savior. All the ends of the earth trust in you, as well as those living across the wide seas.
`Ps 65:6` You created the mountains by your power, and demonstrated your strength.
`Ps 65:7` You calm the raging seas and their roaring waves, as well as the commotion made by the nations.
`Ps 65:8` Even those living in the most remote areas are awestruck by your acts; you cause those living in the east and west to praise you.

## God's Provision and Care for the Earth
¶`Ps 65:9` You visit the earth and give it rain; you make it rich and fertile. God’s streams are full of water; you provide grain for them, for you have prepared the earth in this way.
`Ps 65:10` You saturate its furrows, and soak its plowed ground. With rain showers you soften its soil, and make its crops grow.
`Ps 65:11` You crown the year with your good blessings, and you leave abundance in your wake.
`Ps 65:12` The pastures in the wilderness glisten with moisture, and the hills are clothed with joy.
`Ps 65:13` The meadows are clothed with sheep, and the valleys are covered with grain. They shout joyfully, yes, they sing.
