# Psalms 66

## Introduction: A Call to Praise God for His Awesome Works
¶[Ps 66:1] For the music director; a song, a psalm. Shout out praise to God, all the earth!
[Ps 66:2] Sing praises about the majesty of his reputation! Give him the honor he deserves!
[Ps 66:3] Say to God: “How awesome are your deeds! Because of your great power your enemies cower in fear before you.
[Ps 66:4] All the earth worships you and sings praises to you! They sing praises to your name!” (Selah)

## Remembering God's Mighty Acts in History
¶[Ps 66:5] Come and witness God’s exploits! His acts on behalf of people are awesome!
[Ps 66:6] He turned the sea into dry land; they passed through the river on foot. Let us rejoice in him there!
[Ps 66:7] He rules by his power forever; he watches the nations. Stubborn rebels should not exalt themselves. (Selah)

## Thanksgiving for God's Faithful Care
¶[Ps 66:8] Praise our God, you nations! Loudly proclaim his praise!
[Ps 66:9] He preserves our lives and does not allow our feet to slip.
[Ps 66:10] For you, O God, tested us; you purified us like refined silver.
[Ps 66:11] You led us into a trap; you caused us to suffer.
[Ps 66:12] You allowed men to ride over our heads; we passed through fire and water, but you brought us out into a wide open place.

## The Psalmist's Personal Vow to Offer Praise and Sacrifice
¶[Ps 66:13] I will enter your temple with burnt sacrifices; I will fulfill the vows I made to you,
[Ps 66:14] which my lips uttered and my mouth spoke when I was in trouble.
[Ps 66:15] I will offer up to you fattened animals as burnt sacrifices, along with the smell of sacrificial rams. I will offer cattle and goats. (Selah)

## Proclaiming the Goodness of God
¶[Ps 66:16] Come ! Listen, all you who are loyal to God! I will declare what he has done for me.
[Ps 66:17] I cried out to him for help and praised him with my tongue.
[Ps 66:18] If I had harbored sin in my heart, the Lord would not have listened.
[Ps 66:19] However, God heard; he listened to my prayer.

## Conclusion: Final Praise to God for His Love
¶[Ps 66:20] God deserves praise, for he did not reject my prayer or abandon his love for me!
