# Psalms 68

## Introduction: An Appeal to God's Strength
¶`Ps 68:1` For the music director; by David, a psalm, a song. God springs into action! His enemies scatter; his adversaries run from him.
`Ps 68:2` As smoke is driven away by the wind, so you drive them away. As wax melts before fire, so the wicked are destroyed before God.
`Ps 68:3` But the godly are happy; they rejoice before God and are overcome with joy.

## God's Care for Israel
¶`Ps 68:4` Sing to God! Sing praises to his name! Exalt the one who rides on the clouds! For the Lord is his name! Rejoice before him!
`Ps 68:5` He is a father to the fatherless and an advocate for widows. God rules from his holy dwelling place.
`Ps 68:6` God settles those who have been deserted in their own homes; he frees prisoners and grants them prosperity. But sinful rebels live in the desert.

## God's Greatness in Israel's Journey
¶`Ps 68:7` O God, when you lead your people into battle, when you march through the wastelands, (Selah)
`Ps 68:8` the earth shakes, yes, the heavens pour down rain before God, the God of Sinai, before God, the God of Israel.
`Ps 68:9` O God, you cause abundant showers to fall on your chosen people. When they are tired, you sustain them,
`Ps 68:10` for you live among them. You sustain the oppressed with your good blessings, O God.

## God's Protection in Battle
¶`Ps 68:11` The Lord speaks; many, many women spread the good news.
`Ps 68:12` Kings leading armies run away – they run away! The lovely lady of the house divides up the loot.
`Ps 68:13` When you lie down among the sheepfolds, the wings of the dove are covered with silver and with glittering gold.
`Ps 68:14` When the Sovereign One scatters kings, let it snow on Zalmon!

## God's Presence on Zion
¶`Ps 68:15` The mountain of Bashan is a towering mountain; the mountain of Bashan is a mountain with many peaks.
`Ps 68:16` Why do you look with envy, O mountains with many peaks, at the mountain where God has decided to live? Indeed the Lord will live there permanently!
`Ps 68:17` God has countless chariots; they number in the thousands. The Lord comes from Sinai in holy splendor.
`Ps 68:18` You ascend on high, you have taken many captives. You receive tribute from men, including even sinful rebels. Indeed the Lord God lives there!

## Praise to God for His Deliverance
¶`Ps 68:19` The Lord deserves praise! Day after day he carries our burden, the God who delivers us. (Selah)
`Ps 68:20` Our God is a God who delivers; the Lord, the sovereign Lord, can rescue from death.
`Ps 68:21` Indeed God strikes the heads of his enemies, the hairy foreheads of those who persist in rebellion.
`Ps 68:22` The Lord says, “I will retrieve them from Bashan, I will bring them back from the depths of the sea,
`Ps 68:23` so that your feet may stomp in their blood, and your dogs may eat their portion of the enemies’ corpses.”

## God's Majestic Procession
¶`Ps 68:24` They see your processions, O God – the processions of my God, my king, who marches along in holy splendor.
`Ps 68:25` Singers walk in front; musicians follow playing their stringed instruments, in the midst of young women playing tambourines.
`Ps 68:26` In your large assemblies praise God, the Lord, in the assemblies of Israel!
`Ps 68:27` There is little Benjamin, their ruler, and the princes of Judah in their robes, along with the princes of Zebulun and the princes of Naphtali.

## God's Blessings on the Righteous
¶`Ps 68:28` God has decreed that you will be powerful. O God, you who have acted on our behalf, demonstrate your power.
`Ps 68:29` Because of your temple in Jerusalem, kings bring tribute to you.
`Ps 68:30` Sound your battle cry against the wild beast of the reeds, and the nations that assemble like a herd of calves led by bulls! They humble themselves and offer gold and silver as tribute. God scatters the nations that like to do battle.
`Ps 68:31` They come with red cloth from Egypt, Ethiopia voluntarily offers tribute to God.

## The Universal Worship of God
¶`Ps 68:32` O kingdoms of the earth, sing to God! Sing praises to the Lord, (Selah)
`Ps 68:33` to the one who rides through the sky from ancient times! Look! He thunders loudly.
`Ps 68:34` Acknowledge God’s power, his sovereignty over Israel, and the power he reveals in the skies!
`Ps 68:35` You are awe-inspiring, O God, as you emerge from your holy temple! It is the God of Israel who gives the people power and strength. God deserves praise!
