# Psalms 71

## Introduction: A Prayer for Refuge and Deliverance
¶[Ps 71:1] In you, O Lord, I have taken shelter! Never let me be humiliated!
[Ps 71:2] Vindicate me by rescuing me! Listen to me! Deliver me!
[Ps 71:3] Be my protector and refuge, a stronghold where I can be safe! For you are my high ridge and my stronghold.

## The Psalmist's Lifelong Praise and Trust in God
¶[Ps 71:4] My God, rescue me from the power of the wicked, from the hand of the cruel oppressor!
[Ps 71:5] For you are my hope; O Sovereign Lord, I have trusted in you since I was young.
[Ps 71:6] I have leaned on you since birth; you pulled me from my mother’s womb. I praise you continually.
[Ps 71:7] Many are appalled when they see me, but you are my secure shelter.
[Ps 71:8] I praise you constantly and speak of your splendor all day long.

## The Psalmist's Appeal for God's Help in Old Age
¶[Ps 71:9] Do not reject me in my old age! When my strength fails, do not abandon me!
[Ps 71:10] For my enemies talk about me; those waiting for a chance to kill me plot my demise.
[Ps 71:11] They say, “God has abandoned him. Run and seize him, for there is no one who will rescue him!”
[Ps 71:12] O God, do not remain far away from me! My God, hurry and help me!
[Ps 71:13] May my accusers be humiliated and defeated! May those who want to harm me be covered with scorn and disgrace!

## Expected Deliverance and Future Praise
¶[Ps 71:14] As for me, I will wait continually, and will continue to praise you.
[Ps 71:15] I will tell about your justice, and all day long proclaim your salvation, though I cannot fathom its full extent.
[Ps 71:16] I will come and tell about the mighty acts of the Sovereign Lord. I will proclaim your justice – yours alone.
[Ps 71:17] O God, you have taught me since I was young, and I am still declaring your amazing deeds.
[Ps 71:18] Even when I am old and gray, O God, do not abandon me, until I tell the next generation about your strength, and those coming after me about your power.

## Thanksgiving for God's Righteousness and Everlasting Support
¶[Ps 71:19] Your justice, O God, extends to the skies above; you have done great things. O God, who can compare to you?
[Ps 71:20] Though you have allowed me to experience much trouble and distress, revive me once again! Bring me up once again from the depths of the earth!
[Ps 71:21] Raise me to a position of great honor! Turn and comfort me!
[Ps 71:22] I will express my thanks to you with a stringed instrument, praising your faithfulness, O my God! I will sing praises to you accompanied by a harp, O Holy One of Israel!
[Ps 71:23] My lips will shout for joy! Yes, I will sing your praises! I will praise you when you rescue me!
[Ps 71:24] All day long my tongue will also tell about your justice, for those who want to harm me will be embarrassed and ashamed.
