# Psalms 73

## Introduction: The Psalmist's Struggle
¶`Ps 73:1` A psalm by Asaph. Certainly God is good to Israel, and to those whose motives are pure!
`Ps 73:2` But as for me, my feet almost slipped; my feet almost slid out from under me.
`Ps 73:3` For I envied those who are proud, as I observed the prosperity of the wicked.

## Description of the Wicked's Prosperity
¶`Ps 73:4` For they suffer no pain; their bodies are strong and well-fed.
`Ps 73:5` They are immune to the trouble common to men; they do not suffer as other men do.
`Ps 73:6` Arrogance is their necklace, and violence covers them like clothing.
`Ps 73:7` Their prosperity causes them to do wrong; their thoughts are sinful.
`Ps 73:8` They mock and say evil things; they proudly threaten violence.
`Ps 73:9` They speak as if they rule in heaven, and lay claim to the earth.
`Ps 73:10` Therefore they have more than enough food to eat, and even suck up the water of the sea.
`Ps 73:11` They say, “How does God know what we do? Is the Most High aware of what goes on?”
`Ps 73:12` Take a good look! This is what the wicked are like, those who always have it so easy and get richer and richer.

## The Psalmist's Internal Struggle
¶`Ps 73:13` I concluded, “Surely in vain I have kept my motives pure and maintained a pure lifestyle.
`Ps 73:14` I suffer all day long, and am punished every morning.”
`Ps 73:15` If I had publicized these thoughts, I would have betrayed your people.
`Ps 73:16` When I tried to make sense of this, it was troubling to me.

## The Turning Point: Reflecting in God's Sanctuary
¶`Ps 73:17` Then I entered the precincts of God’s temple, and understood the destiny of the wicked.
`Ps 73:18` Surely you put them in slippery places; you bring them down to ruin.
`Ps 73:19` How desolate they become in a mere moment! Terrifying judgments make their demise complete!
`Ps 73:20` They are like a dream after one wakes up. O Lord, when you awake you will despise them.

## The Psalmist's Repentance and Renewed Relationship with God
¶`Ps 73:21` Yes, my spirit was bitter, and my insides felt sharp pain.
`Ps 73:22` I was ignorant and lacked insight; I was as senseless as an animal before you.
`Ps 73:23` But I am continually with you; you hold my right hand.
`Ps 73:24` You guide me by your wise advice, and then you will lead me to a position of honor.
`Ps 73:25` Whom do I have in heaven but you? I desire no one but you on earth.
`Ps 73:26` My flesh and my heart may grow weak, but God always protects my heart and gives me stability.

## Conclusion: Praising God and Declaring His Deeds
¶`Ps 73:27` Yes, look! Those far from you die; you destroy everyone who is unfaithful to you.
`Ps 73:28` But as for me, God’s presence is all I need. I have made the Sovereign Lord my shelter, as I declare all the things you have done.
