# Psalms 74

## Introduction
¶[Ps 74:1] A well-written song by Asaph. Why, O God, have you permanently rejected us? Why does your anger burn against the sheep of your pasture?
[Ps 74:2] Remember your people whom you acquired in ancient times, whom you rescued so they could be your very own nation, as well as Mount Zion, where you dwell!
[Ps 74:3] Hurry to the permanent ruins, and to all the damage the enemy has done to the temple!

## The Destruction of the Sanctuary
¶[Ps 74:4] Your enemies roar in the middle of your sanctuary; they set up their battle flags.
[Ps 74:5] They invade like lumberjacks swinging their axes in a thick forest.
[Ps 74:6] And now they are tearing down all its engravings with axes and crowbars.
[Ps 74:7] They set your sanctuary on fire; they desecrate your dwelling place by knocking it to the ground.
[Ps 74:8] They say to themselves, “We will oppress all of them.” They burn down all the places where people worship God in the land.

## The Lament over God's Absence
¶[Ps 74:9] We do not see any signs of God’s presence; there are no longer any prophets and we have no one to tell us how long this will last.
[Ps 74:10] How long, O God, will the adversary hurl insults? Will the enemy blaspheme your name forever?
[Ps 74:11] Why do you remain inactive? Intervene and destroy him!

## The Affirmation of God's Mighty Deeds
¶[Ps 74:12] But God has been my king from ancient times, performing acts of deliverance on the earth.
[Ps 74:13] You destroyed the sea by your strength; you shattered the heads of the sea monster in the water.
[Ps 74:14] You crushed the heads of Leviathan; you fed him to the people who live along the coast.
[Ps 74:15] You broke open the spring and the stream; you dried up perpetually flowing rivers.
[Ps 74:16] You established the cycle of day and night; you put the moon and sun in place.
[Ps 74:17] You set up all the boundaries of the earth; you created the cycle of summer and winter.

## The Plea for God's Intervention
¶[Ps 74:18] Remember how the enemy hurls insults, O Lord, and how a foolish nation blasphemes your name!
[Ps 74:19] Do not hand the life of your dove over to a wild animal! Do not continue to disregard the lives of your oppressed people!
[Ps 74:20] Remember your covenant promises, for the dark regions of the earth are full of places where violence rules.
[Ps 74:21] Do not let the afflicted be turned back in shame! Let the oppressed and poor praise your name!
[Ps 74:22] Rise up, O God! Defend your honor! Remember how fools insult you all day long!
[Ps 74:23] Do not disregard what your enemies say, or the unceasing shouts of those who defy you.
