# Psalms 77

## Introduction: Cry for Help
¶[Ps 77:1] For the music director, Jeduthun; a psalm of Asaph. I will cry out to God and call for help! I will cry out to God and he will pay attention to me.
[Ps 77:2] In my time of trouble I sought the Lord. I kept my hand raised in prayer throughout the night. I refused to be comforted.

## Reflections on Sleepless Nights
¶[Ps 77:3] I said, “I will remember God while I groan; I will think about him while my strength leaves me.” (Selah)
[Ps 77:4] You held my eyelids open; I was troubled and could not speak.
[Ps 77:5] I thought about the days of old, about ancient times.
[Ps 77:6] I said, “During the night I will remember the song I once sang; I will think very carefully.” I tried to make sense of what was happening.

## Recalling God's Past Faithfulness
¶[Ps 77:7] I asked, “Will the Lord reject me forever? Will he never again show me his favor?
[Ps 77:8] Has his loyal love disappeared forever? Has his promise failed forever?
[Ps 77:9] Has God forgotten to be merciful? Has his anger stifled his compassion?” (Selah)
[Ps 77:10] Then I said, “I am sickened by the thought that the Most High might become inactive.

## Meditations on God's Wondrous Works
¶[Ps 77:11] I will remember the works of the Lord. Yes, I will remember the amazing things you did long ago!
[Ps 77:12] I will think about all you have done; I will reflect upon your deeds!”

## God's Control Over Nature
¶[Ps 77:13] O God, your deeds are extraordinary! What god can compare to our great God?
[Ps 77:14] You are the God who does amazing things; you have revealed your strength among the nations.
[Ps 77:15] You delivered your people by your strength – the children of Jacob and Joseph. (Selah)

## God's Power Displayed in the Miracle at the Red Sea
¶[Ps 77:16] The waters saw you, O God, the waters saw you and trembled. Yes, the depths of the sea shook with fear.
[Ps 77:17] The clouds poured down rain; the skies thundered. Yes, your arrows flashed about.
[Ps 77:18] Your thunderous voice was heard in the wind; the lightning bolts lit up the world; the earth trembled and shook.
[Ps 77:19] You walked through the sea; you passed through the surging waters, but left no footprints.
[Ps 77:20] You led your people like a flock of sheep, by the hand of Moses and Aaron.
