# Psalms 78

## Introduction: The Purpose of the Psalm and Importance of Remembering God's Works
¶`Ps 78:1` A well-written song by Asaph. Pay attention, my people, to my instruction! Listen to the words I speak!
`Ps 78:2` I will sing a song that imparts wisdom; I will make insightful observations about the past.
`Ps 78:3` What we have heard and learned – that which our ancestors have told us –
`Ps 78:4` we will not hide from their descendants. We will tell the next generation about the Lord’s praiseworthy acts, about his strength and the amazing things he has done.
`Ps 78:5` He established a rule in Jacob; he set up a law in Israel. He commanded our ancestors to make his deeds known to their descendants,
`Ps 78:6` so that the next generation, children yet to be born, might know about them. They will grow up and tell their descendants about them.
`Ps 78:7` Then they will place their confidence in God. They will not forget the works of God, and they will obey his commands.
`Ps 78:8` Then they will not be like their ancestors, who were a stubborn and rebellious generation, a generation that was not committed and faithful to God.

## Israel's History of Rebellion and Unfaithfulness
¶`Ps 78:9` The Ephraimites were armed with bows, but they retreated in the day of battle.
`Ps 78:10` They did not keep their covenant with God, and they refused to obey his law.
`Ps 78:11` They forgot what he had done, the amazing things he had shown them.
`Ps 78:12` He did amazing things in the sight of their ancestors, in the land of Egypt, in the region of Zoan.
`Ps 78:13` He divided the sea and led them across it; he made the water stand in a heap.
`Ps 78:14` He led them with a cloud by day, and with the light of a fire all night long.
`Ps 78:15` He broke open rocks in the wilderness, and gave them enough water to fill the depths of the sea.
`Ps 78:16` He caused streams to flow from the rock, and made the water flow like rivers.

¶`Ps 78:17` Yet they continued to sin against him, and rebelled against the Most High in the desert.
`Ps 78:18` They willfully challenged God by asking for food to satisfy their appetite.
`Ps 78:19` They insulted God, saying, “Is God really able to give us food in the wilderness?
`Ps 78:20` Yes, he struck a rock and water flowed out, streams gushed forth. But can he also give us food? Will he provide meat for his people?”
`Ps 78:21` When the Lord heard this, he was furious. A fire broke out against Jacob, and his anger flared up against Israel,
`Ps 78:22` because they did not have faith in God, and did not trust his ability to deliver them.
`Ps 78:23` He gave a command to the clouds above, and opened the doors in the sky.
`Ps 78:24` He rained down manna for them to eat; he gave them the grain of heaven.
`Ps 78:25` Man ate the food of the mighty ones. He sent them more than enough to eat.
`Ps 78:26` He brought the east wind through the sky, and by his strength led forth the south wind.
`Ps 78:27` He rained down meat on them like dust, birds as numerous as the sand on the seashores.
`Ps 78:28` He caused them to fall right in the middle of their camp, all around their homes.
`Ps 78:29` They ate until they were beyond full; he gave them what they desired.
`Ps 78:30` They were not yet filled up, their food was still in their mouths,
`Ps 78:31` when the anger of God flared up against them. He killed some of the strongest of them; he brought the young men of Israel to their knees.

¶`Ps 78:32` Despite all this, they continued to sin, and did not trust him to do amazing things.
`Ps 78:33` So he caused them to die unsatisfied and filled with terror.
`Ps 78:34` When he struck them down, they sought his favor; they turned back and longed for God.
`Ps 78:35` They remembered that God was their protector, and that God Most High was their deliverer.
`Ps 78:36` But they deceived him with their words, and lied to him.
`Ps 78:37` They were not really committed to him, and they were unfaithful to his covenant.
`Ps 78:38` Yet he is compassionate. He forgives sin and does not destroy. He often holds back his anger, and does not stir up his fury.
`Ps 78:39` He remembered that they were made of flesh, and were like a wind that blows past and does not return.

¶`Ps 78:40` How often they rebelled against him in the wilderness, and insulted him in the wastelands!
`Ps 78:41` They again challenged God, and offended the Holy One of Israel.

## God's Deliverance of Israel from Egypt and Demonstrations of Power
¶`Ps 78:42` They did not remember what he had done, how he delivered them from the enemy,
`Ps 78:43` when he performed his awesome deeds in Egypt, and his acts of judgment in the region of Zoan.
`Ps 78:44` He turned their rivers into blood, and they could not drink from their streams.
`Ps 78:45` He sent swarms of biting insects against them, as well as frogs that overran their land.
`Ps 78:46` He gave their crops to the grasshopper, the fruit of their labor to the locust.
`Ps 78:47` He destroyed their vines with hail, and their sycamore-fig trees with driving rain.
`Ps 78:48` He rained hail down on their cattle, and hurled lightning bolts down on their livestock.
`Ps 78:49` His raging anger lashed out against them, He sent fury, rage, and trouble as messengers who bring disaster.
`Ps 78:50` He sent his anger in full force; he did not spare them from death; he handed their lives over to destruction.
`Ps 78:51` He struck down all the firstborn in Egypt, the firstfruits of their reproductive power in the tents of Ham.
`Ps 78:52` Yet he brought out his people like sheep; he led them through the wilderness like a flock.
`Ps 78:53` He guided them safely along, and they were not afraid; but the sea covered their enemies.
`Ps 78:54` He brought them to the border of his holy land, to this mountainous land which his right hand acquired.
`Ps 78:55` He drove the nations out from before them; he assigned them their tribal allotments and allowed the tribes of Israel to settle down.

## Israel's Continued Rebellion, Idolatry, and Punishment
¶`Ps 78:56` Yet they challenged and defied God Most High, and did not obey his commands.
`Ps 78:57` They were unfaithful and acted as treacherously as their ancestors; they were as unreliable as a malfunctioning bow.
`Ps 78:58` They made him angry with their pagan shrines, and made him jealous with their idols.
`Ps 78:59` God heard and was angry; he completely rejected Israel.
`Ps 78:60` He abandoned the sanctuary at Shiloh, the tent where he lived among men.
`Ps 78:61` He allowed the symbol of his strong presence to be captured; he gave the symbol of his splendor into the hand of the enemy.
`Ps 78:62` He delivered his people over to the sword, and was angry with his chosen nation.
`Ps 78:63` Fire consumed their young men, and their virgins remained unmarried.
`Ps 78:64` Their priests fell by the sword, but their widows did not weep.

¶`Ps 78:65` But then the Lord awoke from his sleep; he was like a warrior in a drunken rage.
`Ps 78:66` He drove his enemies back; he made them a permanent target for insults.
`Ps 78:67` He rejected the tent of Joseph; he did not choose the tribe of Ephraim.
`Ps 78:68` He chose the tribe of Judah, and Mount Zion, which he loves.
`Ps 78:69` He made his sanctuary as enduring as the heavens above; as secure as the earth, which he established permanently.
`Ps 78:70` He chose David, his servant, and took him from the sheepfolds.
`Ps 78:71` He took him away from following the mother sheep, and made him the shepherd of Jacob, his people, and of Israel, his chosen nation.
`Ps 78:72` David cared for them with pure motives; he led them with skill.
