# Psalms 79

## Introduction
¶[Ps 79:1] A psalm of Asaph. O God, foreigners have invaded your chosen land; they have polluted your holy temple and turned Jerusalem into a heap of ruins.

## Lament over the destruction of Jerusalem
¶[Ps 79:2] They have given the corpses of your servants to the birds of the sky; the flesh of your loyal followers to the beasts of the earth.
[Ps 79:3] They have made their blood flow like water all around Jerusalem, and there is no one to bury them.
[Ps 79:4] We have become an object of disdain to our neighbors; those who live on our borders taunt and insult us.

## Prayer for God's intervention
¶[Ps 79:5] How long will this go on, O Lord? Will you stay angry forever? How long will your rage burn like fire?
[Ps 79:6] Pour out your anger on the nations that do not acknowledge you, on the kingdoms that do not pray to you!

## Plea for forgiveness and salvation
¶[Ps 79:7] For they have devoured Jacob and destroyed his home.
[Ps 79:8] Do not hold us accountable for the sins of earlier generations! Quickly send your compassion our way, for we are in serious trouble!
[Ps 79:9] Help us, O God, our deliverer! For the sake of your glorious reputation, rescue us! Forgive our sins for the sake of your reputation!

## Prayer for justice and retribution
¶[Ps 79:10] Why should the nations say, “Where is their God?” Before our very eyes may the shed blood of your servants be avenged among the nations!
[Ps 79:11] Listen to the painful cries of the prisoners! Use your great strength to set free those condemned to die!
[Ps 79:12] Pay back our neighbors in full! May they be insulted the same way they insulted you, O Lord!

## Commitment to God's praise
¶[Ps 79:13] Then we, your people, the sheep of your pasture, will continually thank you. We will tell coming generations of your praiseworthy acts.
