# Psalms 80

## Introduction: A Cry for Restoration
¶[Ps 80:1] For the music director; according to the shushan-eduth style; a psalm of Asaph. O shepherd of Israel, pay attention, you who lead Joseph like a flock of sheep! You who sit enthroned above the cherubim, reveal your splendor!
[Ps 80:2] In the sight of Ephraim, Benjamin, and Manasseh reveal your power! Come and deliver us!
[Ps 80:3] O God, restore us! Smile on us! Then we will be delivered!

## Lamentation over Israel's Afflictions
¶[Ps 80:4] O Lord God of Heaven’s Armies! How long will you remain angry at your people while they pray to you?
[Ps 80:5] You have given them tears as food; you have made them drink tears by the measure.
[Ps 80:6] You have made our neighbors dislike us, and our enemies insult us.
[Ps 80:7] O God of Heaven’s Armies, restore us! Smile on us! Then we will be delivered!

## The Vineyard Parable and Israel's History
¶[Ps 80:8] You uprooted a vine from Egypt; you drove out nations and transplanted it.
[Ps 80:9] You cleared the ground for it; it took root, and filled the land.
[Ps 80:10] The mountains were covered by its shadow, the highest cedars by its branches.
[Ps 80:11] Its branches reached the Mediterranean Sea, and its shoots the Euphrates River.
[Ps 80:12] Why did you break down its walls, so that all who pass by pluck its fruit?
[Ps 80:13] The wild boars of the forest ruin it; the insects of the field feed on it.
[Ps 80:14] O God of Heaven’s Armies, come back! Look down from heaven and take notice! Take care of this vine,
[Ps 80:15] the root your right hand planted, the shoot you made to grow!
[Ps 80:16] It is burned and cut down. They die because you are displeased with them.

## The Hope for Restoration
¶[Ps 80:17] May you give support to the one you have chosen, to the one whom you raised up for yourself!
[Ps 80:18] Then we will not turn away from you. Revive us and we will pray to you!
[Ps 80:19] O Lord God of Heaven’s Armies, restore us! Smile on us! Then we will be delivered!
