# Psalms 81

## Introduction: Exhortation to Worship
¶[Ps 81:1] For the music director; according to the gittith style; by Asaph. Shout for joy to God, our source of strength! Shout out to the God of Jacob!
[Ps 81:2] Sing a song and play the tambourine, the pleasant sounding harp, and the ten-stringed instrument!
[Ps 81:3] Sound the ram’s horn on the day of the new moon, and on the day of the full moon when our festival begins.

## The Reason for Praise: God's Deliverance of Israel
¶[Ps 81:4] For observing the festival is a requirement for Israel; it is an ordinance given by the God of Jacob.
[Ps 81:5] He decreed it as a regulation in Joseph, when he attacked the land of Egypt. I heard a voice I did not recognize.
[Ps 81:6] It said: “I removed the burden from his shoulder; his hands were released from holding the basket.
[Ps 81:7] In your distress you called out and I rescued you. I answered you from a dark thundercloud. I tested you at the waters of Meribah. (Selah)

## God's Desire for Israel's Obedience and Loyalty
¶[Ps 81:8] I said, ‘Listen, my people! I will warn you! O Israel, if only you would obey me!
[Ps 81:9] There must be no other god among you. You must not worship a foreign god.
[Ps 81:10] I am the Lord, your God, the one who brought you out of the land of Egypt. Open your mouth wide and I will fill it!’

## Israel's Disobedience and its Consequences
¶[Ps 81:11] But my people did not obey me; Israel did not submit to me.
[Ps 81:12] I gave them over to their stubborn desires; they did what seemed right to them.

## Promises of Blessings for Repentant Israel
¶[Ps 81:13] If only my people would obey me! If only Israel would keep my commands!
[Ps 81:14] Then I would quickly subdue their enemies, and attack their adversaries.”
[Ps 81:15] (May those who hate the Lord cower in fear before him! May they be permanently humiliated!)
[Ps 81:16] “I would feed Israel the best wheat, and would satisfy your appetite with honey from the rocky cliffs.”
