# Psalms 83

## Introduction: A Cry for God's Intervention
¶`Ps 83:1` A song, a psalm of Asaph. O God, do not be silent! Do not ignore us! Do not be inactive, O God!
`Ps 83:2` For look, your enemies are making a commotion; those who hate you are hostile.

## The Unholy Alliance against God's People
¶`Ps 83:3` They carefully plot against your people, and make plans to harm the ones you cherish.
`Ps 83:4` They say, “Come on, let’s annihilate them so they are no longer a nation! Then the name of Israel will be remembered no more.”
`Ps 83:5` Yes, they devise a unified strategy; they form an alliance against you.
`Ps 83:6` It includes the tents of Edom and the Ishmaelites, Moab and the Hagrites,
`Ps 83:7` Gebal, Ammon, and Amalek, Philistia and the inhabitants of Tyre.
`Ps 83:8` Even Assyria has allied with them, lending its strength to the descendants of Lot. (Selah)

## Historical Examples of Divine Judgment
¶`Ps 83:9` Do to them as you did to Midian – as you did to Sisera and Jabin at the Kishon River!
`Ps 83:10` They were destroyed at En Dor; their corpses were like manure on the ground.
`Ps 83:11` Make their nobles like Oreb and Zeeb, and all their rulers like Zebah and Zalmunna,
`Ps 83:12` who said, “Let’s take over the pastures of God!”

## The Prayer for Vengeance and Confusion
¶`Ps 83:13` O my God, make them like dead thistles, like dead weeds blown away by the wind!
`Ps 83:14` Like the fire that burns down the forest, or the flames that consume the mountainsides,
`Ps 83:15` chase them with your gale winds, and terrify them with your windstorm.
`Ps 83:16` Cover their faces with shame, so they might seek you, O Lord.
`Ps 83:17` May they be humiliated and continually terrified! May they die in shame!

## Conclusion: God's Sovereignty and Praise
¶`Ps 83:18` Then they will know that you alone are the Lord, the Most High over all the earth.
