# Psalms 84

## Longing for God's Presence
¶`Ps 84:1` For the music director; according to the gittith style; written by the Korahites, a psalm. How lovely is the place where you live, O Lord of Heaven’s Armies!
`Ps 84:2` I desperately want to be in the courts of the Lord’s temple. My heart and my entire being shout for joy to the living God.
`Ps 84:3` Even the birds find a home there, and the swallow builds a nest, where she can protect her young near your altars, O Lord of Heaven’s Armies, my king and my God.
`Ps 84:4` How blessed are those who live in your temple and praise you continually! (Selah)

## Strength and Joy in the Journey toward God's Presence
¶`Ps 84:5` How blessed are those who find their strength in you, and long to travel the roads that lead to your temple!
`Ps 84:6` As they pass through the Baca Valley, he provides a spring for them. The rain even covers it with pools of water.
`Ps 84:7` They are sustained as they travel along; each one appears before God in Zion.
`Ps 84:8` O Lord God of Heaven’s Armies, hear my prayer! Listen, O God of Jacob! (Selah)

## Trusting in God's Protection and Blessings
¶`Ps 84:9` O God, take notice of our shield! Show concern for your chosen king!
`Ps 84:10` Certainly spending just one day in your temple courts is better than spending a thousand elsewhere. I would rather stand at the entrance to the temple of my God than live in the tents of the wicked.
`Ps 84:11` For the Lord God is our sovereign protector. The Lord bestows favor and honor; he withholds no good thing from those who have integrity.
`Ps 84:12` O Lord of Heaven’s Armies, how blessed are those who trust in you!
