# Psalms 86

## Introduction: Plea for God's Mercy
¶`Ps 86:1` A prayer of David. Listen O Lord! Answer me! For I am oppressed and needy.
`Ps 86:2` Protect me, for I am loyal! You are my God; deliver your servant who trusts in you!

## David's Confidence in God's Faithfulness
¶`Ps 86:3` Have mercy on me, O Lord, for I cry out to you all day long!
`Ps 86:4` Make your servant glad, for to you, O Lord, I pray!

## God's Loving-kindness and Willingness to Forgive
¶`Ps 86:5` Certainly O Lord, you are kind and forgiving, and show great faithfulness to all who cry out to you.
`Ps 86:6` O Lord, hear my prayer! Pay attention to my plea for mercy!
`Ps 86:7` In my time of trouble I cry out to you, for you will answer me.

## Acknowledgement of God's Unique Nature
¶`Ps 86:8` None can compare to you among the gods, O Lord! Your exploits are incomparable!
`Ps 86:9` All the nations, whom you created, will come and worship you, O Lord. They will honor your name.
`Ps 86:10` For you are great and do amazing things. You alone are God.

## David's Desire for an Obedient Heart
¶`Ps 86:11` O Lord, teach me how you want me to live! Then I will obey your commands. Make me wholeheartedly committed to you!
`Ps 86:12` O Lord, my God, I will give you thanks with my whole heart! I will honor your name continually!

## A Cry for Deliverance from the Enemy
¶`Ps 86:13` For you will extend your great loyal love to me, and will deliver my life from the depths of Sheol.
`Ps 86:14` O God, arrogant men attack me; a gang of ruthless men, who do not respect you, seek my life.

## Assurance in the Nature of God's Compassion
¶`Ps 86:15` But you, O Lord, are a compassionate and merciful God. You are patient and demonstrate great loyal love and faithfulness.
`Ps 86:16` Turn toward me and have mercy on me! Give your servant your strength! Deliver this son of your female servant!

## Conclusion: David's Anticipation of God's Favor
¶`Ps 86:17` Show me evidence of your favor! Then those who hate me will see it and be ashamed, for you, O Lord, will help me and comfort me.
