# Psalms 89

## Introduction: God's Covenant with David
¶`Ps 89:1` A well-written song by Ethan the Ezrachite. I will sing continually about the Lord’s faithful deeds; to future generations I will proclaim your faithfulness.
`Ps 89:2` For I say, “Loyal love is permanently established; in the skies you set up your faithfulness.”
`Ps 89:3` The Lord said, “I have made a covenant with my chosen one; I have made a promise on oath to David, my servant:
`Ps 89:4` ‘I will give you an eternal dynasty and establish your throne throughout future generations.’” (Selah)

## God's Majesty and Sovereignty
¶`Ps 89:5` O Lord, the heavens praise your amazing deeds, as well as your faithfulness in the angelic assembly.
`Ps 89:6` For who in the skies can compare to the Lord? Who is like the Lord among the heavenly beings,
`Ps 89:7` a God who is honored in the great angelic assembly, and more awesome than all who surround him?
`Ps 89:8` O Lord God of Heaven’s Armies! Who is strong like you, O Lord? Your faithfulness surrounds you.
`Ps 89:9` You rule over the proud sea. When its waves surge, you calm them.
`Ps 89:10` You crushed the Proud One and killed it; with your strong arm you scattered your enemies.
`Ps 89:11` The heavens belong to you, as does the earth. You made the world and all it contains.
`Ps 89:12` You created the north and the south. Tabor and Hermon rejoice in your name.
`Ps 89:13` Your arm is powerful, your hand strong, your right hand victorious.
`Ps 89:14` Equity and justice are the foundation of your throne. Loyal love and faithfulness characterize your rule.

## Blessings of God's People
¶`Ps 89:15` How blessed are the people who worship you! O Lord, they experience your favor.
`Ps 89:16` They rejoice in your name all day long, and are vindicated by your justice.
`Ps 89:17` For you give them splendor and strength. By your favor we are victorious.
`Ps 89:18` For our shield belongs to the Lord, our king to the Holy One of Israel.

## The Lord's Choice of David
¶`Ps 89:19` Then you spoke through a vision to your faithful followers and said: “I have placed a young hero over a warrior; I have raised up a young man from the people.
`Ps 89:20` I have discovered David, my servant. With my holy oil I have anointed him as king.
`Ps 89:21` My hand will support him, and my arm will strengthen him.
`Ps 89:22` No enemy will be able to exact tribute from him; a violent oppressor will not be able to humiliate him.
`Ps 89:23` I will crush his enemies before him; I will strike down those who hate him.
`Ps 89:24` He will experience my faithfulness and loyal love, and by my name he will win victories.
`Ps 89:25` I will place his hand over the sea, his right hand over the rivers.
`Ps 89:26` He will call out to me, ‘You are my father, my God, and the protector who delivers me.’
`Ps 89:27` I will appoint him to be my firstborn son, the most exalted of the earth’s kings.
`Ps 89:28` I will always extend my loyal love to him, and my covenant with him is secure.
`Ps 89:29` I will give him an eternal dynasty, and make his throne as enduring as the skies above.

## Consequences of Disobedience
¶`Ps 89:30` If his sons reject my law and disobey my regulations,
`Ps 89:31` if they break my rules and do not keep my commandments,
`Ps 89:32` I will punish their rebellion by beating them with a club, their sin by inflicting them with bruises.
`Ps 89:33` But I will not remove my loyal love from him, nor be unfaithful to my promise.
`Ps 89:34` I will not break my covenant or go back on what I promised.
`Ps 89:35` Once and for all I have vowed by my own holiness, I will never deceive David.
`Ps 89:36` His dynasty will last forever. His throne will endure before me, like the sun,
`Ps 89:37` it will remain stable, like the moon, his throne will endure like the skies.” (Selah)
`Ps 89:38` But you have spurned and rejected him; you are angry with your chosen king.
`Ps 89:39` You have repudiated your covenant with your servant; you have thrown his crown to the ground.
`Ps 89:40` You have broken down all his walls; you have made his strongholds a heap of ruins.
`Ps 89:41` All who pass by have robbed him; he has become an object of disdain to his neighbors.
`Ps 89:42` You have allowed his adversaries to be victorious, and all his enemies to rejoice.
`Ps 89:43` You turn back his sword from the adversary, and have not sustained him in battle.
`Ps 89:44` You have brought to an end his splendor, and have knocked his throne to the ground.
`Ps 89:45` You have cut short his youth, and have covered him with shame. (Selah)

## Plea for God's Restoration and Mercy
¶`Ps 89:46` How long, O Lord, will this last? Will you remain hidden forever? Will your anger continue to burn like fire?
`Ps 89:47` Take note of my brief lifespan! Why do you make all people so mortal?
`Ps 89:48` No man can live on without experiencing death, or deliver his life from the power of Sheol. (Selah)
`Ps 89:49` Where are your earlier faithful deeds, O Lord, the ones performed in accordance with your reliable oath to David?
`Ps 89:50` Take note, O Lord, of the way your servants are taunted, and of how I must bear so many insults from people!
`Ps 89:51` Your enemies, O Lord, hurl insults; they insult your chosen king as they dog his footsteps.
`Ps 89:52` The Lord deserves praise forevermore! We agree! We agree!
