# Psalms 91

## Introduction: Assurance of Refuge
¶`Ps 91:1` As for you, the one who lives in the shelter of the Most High, and resides in the protective shadow of the Sovereign One –

## Confidence in Divine Protection
¶`Ps 91:2` I say this about the Lord, my shelter and my stronghold, my God in whom I trust –

## Protection from Troubles and Dangers
¶`Ps 91:3` he will certainly rescue you from the snare of the hunter and from the destructive plague.
`Ps 91:4` He will shelter you with his wings; you will find safety under his wings. His faithfulness is like a shield or a protective wall.
`Ps 91:5` You need not fear the terrors of the night, the arrow that flies by day,
`Ps 91:6` the plague that stalks in the darkness, or the disease that ravages at noon.

## Protection for the Righteous
¶`Ps 91:7` Though a thousand may fall beside you, and a multitude on your right side, it will not reach you.
`Ps 91:8` Certainly you will see it with your very own eyes – you will see the wicked paid back.

## Trusting in the Lord's Protection
¶`Ps 91:9` For you have taken refuge in the Lord, my shelter, the Most High.
`Ps 91:10` No harm will overtake you; no illness will come near your home.
`Ps 91:11` For he will order his angels to protect you in all you do.
`Ps 91:12` They will lift you up in their hands, so you will not slip and fall on a stone.

## Victory over Enemies and Dangers
¶`Ps 91:13` You will subdue a lion and a snake; you will trample underfoot a young lion and a serpent.

## The Lord's Promise of Help and Salvation
¶`Ps 91:14` The Lord says, “Because he is devoted to me, I will deliver him; I will protect him because he is loyal to me.
`Ps 91:15` When he calls out to me, I will answer him. I will be with him when he is in trouble; I will rescue him and bring him honor.
`Ps 91:16` I will satisfy him with long life, and will let him see my salvation.
