# Psalms 92

## Introduction: Praising the Lord for His Goodness
¶[Ps 92:1] A psalm; a song for the Sabbath day. It is fitting to thank the Lord, and to sing praises to your name, O Most High!
[Ps 92:2] It is fitting to proclaim your loyal love in the morning, and your faithfulness during the night,
[Ps 92:3] to the accompaniment of a ten-stringed instrument and a lyre, to the accompaniment of the meditative tone of the harp.

## God's Works and Thoughts
¶[Ps 92:4] For you, O Lord, have made me happy by your work. I will sing for joy because of what you have done.
[Ps 92:5] How great are your works, O Lord! Your plans are very intricate!
[Ps 92:6] The spiritually insensitive do not recognize this; the fool does not understand this.

## The Fate of the Wicked
¶[Ps 92:7] When the wicked sprout up like grass, and all the evildoers glisten, it is so that they may be annihilated.
[Ps 92:8] But you, O Lord, reign forever!
[Ps 92:9] Indeed, look at your enemies, O Lord! Indeed, look at how your enemies perish! All the evildoers are scattered!

## God's Protection and Blessings for the Righteous
¶[Ps 92:10] You exalt my horn like that of a wild ox. I am covered with fresh oil.
[Ps 92:11] I gloat in triumph over those who tried to ambush me; I hear the defeated cries of the evil foes who attacked me.
[Ps 92:12] The godly grow like a palm tree; they grow high like a cedar in Lebanon.

## The Righteous Flourishing
¶[Ps 92:13] Planted in the Lord’s house, they grow in the courts of our God.
[Ps 92:14] They bear fruit even when they are old; they are filled with vitality and have many leaves.

## Conclusion: Proclaiming God's Righteousness and Faithfulness
¶[Ps 92:15] So they proclaim that the Lord, my protector, is just and never unfair.
