# Psalms 94

## Introduction: The Call for Vengeance
¶[Ps 94:1] O Lord, the God who avenges! O God who avenges, reveal your splendor!
[Ps 94:2] Rise up, O judge of the earth! Pay back the proud!

## God's Timing and Judgment
¶[Ps 94:3] O Lord, how long will the wicked, how long will the wicked celebrate?
[Ps 94:4] They spew out threats and speak defiantly; all the evildoers boast.
[Ps 94:5] O Lord, they crush your people; they oppress the nation that belongs to you.
[Ps 94:6] They kill the widow and the resident foreigner, and they murder the fatherless.
[Ps 94:7] Then they say, “The Lord does not see this; the God of Jacob does not take notice of it.”

## A Warning to the Foolish and Wicked
¶[Ps 94:8] Take notice of this, you ignorant people! You fools, when will you ever understand?
[Ps 94:9] Does the one who makes the human ear not hear? Does the one who forms the human eye not see?
[Ps 94:10] Does the one who disciplines the nations not punish? He is the one who imparts knowledge to human beings!
[Ps 94:11] The Lord knows that peoples’ thoughts are morally bankrupt.

## The Blessedness of God's Chastisement
¶[Ps 94:12] How blessed is the one whom you instruct, O Lord, the one whom you teach from your law,
[Ps 94:13] in order to protect him from times of trouble, until the wicked are destroyed.
[Ps 94:14] Certainly the Lord does not forsake his people; he does not abandon the nation that belongs to him.
[Ps 94:15] For justice will prevail, and all the morally upright will be vindicated.

## The Lord as Refuge and Support
¶[Ps 94:16] Who will rise up to defend me against the wicked? Who will stand up for me against the evildoers?
[Ps 94:17] If the Lord had not helped me, I would soon have dwelt in the silence of death.
[Ps 94:18] If I say, “My foot is slipping,” your loyal love, O Lord, supports me.
[Ps 94:19] When worries threaten to overwhelm me, your soothing touch makes me happy.

## Final Condemnation of the Wicked
¶[Ps 94:20] Cruel rulers are not your allies, those who make oppressive laws.
[Ps 94:21] They conspire against the blameless, and condemn to death the innocent.
[Ps 94:22] But the Lord will protect me, and my God will shelter me.
[Ps 94:23] He will pay them back for their sin. He will destroy them because of their evil; the Lord our God will destroy them.
