# Psalms 103

## Praise for God's Tender Mercies
¶[Ps 103:1] By David. Praise the Lord, O my soul! With all that is within me, praise his holy name!
[Ps 103:2] Praise the Lord, O my soul! Do not forget all his kind deeds!
[Ps 103:3] He is the one who forgives all your sins, who heals all your diseases,
[Ps 103:4] who delivers your life from the Pit, who crowns you with his loyal love and compassion,
[Ps 103:5] who satisfies your life with good things, so your youth is renewed like an eagle’s.

## God's Compassionate Character
¶[Ps 103:6] The Lord does what is fair, and executes justice for all the oppressed.
[Ps 103:7] The Lord revealed his faithful acts to Moses, his deeds to the Israelites.
[Ps 103:8] The Lord is compassionate and merciful; he is patient and demonstrates great loyal love.
[Ps 103:9] He does not always accuse, and does not stay angry.
[Ps 103:10] He does not deal with us as our sins deserve; he does not repay us as our misdeeds deserve.
[Ps 103:11] For as the skies are high above the earth, so his loyal love towers over his faithful followers.
[Ps 103:12] As far as the eastern horizon is from the west, so he removes the guilt of our rebellious actions from us.
[Ps 103:13] As a father has compassion on his children, so the Lord has compassion on his faithful followers.
[Ps 103:14] For he knows what we are made of; he realizes we are made of clay.

## The Frailty of Human Life and the Everlasting Nature of God's Love
¶[Ps 103:15] A person’s life is like grass. Like a flower in the field it flourishes,
[Ps 103:16] but when the hot wind blows by, it disappears, and one can no longer even spot the place where it once grew.
[Ps 103:17] But the Lord continually shows loyal love to his faithful followers, and is faithful to their descendants,
[Ps 103:18] to those who keep his covenant, who are careful to obey his commands.

## The Universal Call to Praise the Lord
¶[Ps 103:19] The Lord has established his throne in heaven; his kingdom extends over everything.
[Ps 103:20] Praise the Lord, you angels of his, you powerful warriors who carry out his decrees and obey his orders!
[Ps 103:21] Praise the Lord, all you warriors of his, you servants of his who carry out his desires!
[Ps 103:22] Praise the Lord, all that he has made, in all the regions of his kingdom! Praise the Lord, O my soul!
