# Psalms 104

## Praise for the Creator's Majesty and Wisdom
¶`Ps 104:1` Praise the Lord, O my soul! O Lord my God, you are magnificent. You are robed in splendor and majesty.
`Ps 104:2` He covers himself with light as if it were a garment. He stretches out the skies like a tent curtain,
`Ps 104:3` and lays the beams of the upper rooms of his palace on the rain clouds. He makes the clouds his chariot, and travels along on the wings of the wind.
`Ps 104:4` He makes the winds his messengers, and the flaming fire his attendant.

## The Beauty and Order of God's Creation
¶`Ps 104:5` He established the earth on its foundations; it will never be moved.
`Ps 104:6` The watery deep covered it like a garment; the waters reached above the mountains.
`Ps 104:7` Your shout made the waters retreat; at the sound of your thunderous voice they hurried off –
`Ps 104:8` as the mountains rose up, and the valleys went down – to the place you appointed for them.
`Ps 104:9` You set up a boundary for them that they could not cross, so that they would not cover the earth again.
`Ps 104:10` He turns springs into streams; they flow between the mountains.
`Ps 104:11` They provide water for all the animals in the field; the wild donkeys quench their thirst.
`Ps 104:12` The birds of the sky live beside them; they chirp among the bushes.
`Ps 104:13` He waters the mountains from the upper rooms of his palace; the earth is full of the fruit you cause to grow.
`Ps 104:14` He provides grass for the cattle, and crops for people to cultivate, so they can produce food from the ground,
`Ps 104:15` as well as wine that makes people feel so good, and so they can have oil to make their faces shine, as well as food that sustains people’s lives.
`Ps 104:16` The trees of the Lord receive all the rain they need, the cedars of Lebanon which he planted,
`Ps 104:17` where the birds make nests, near the evergreens in which the herons live.
`Ps 104:18` The wild goats live in the high mountains; the rock badgers find safety in the cliffs.

## The Interdependence of God's Creatures
¶`Ps 104:19` He made the moon to mark the months, and the sun sets according to a regular schedule.
`Ps 104:20` You make it dark and night comes, during which all the beasts of the forest prowl around.
`Ps 104:21` The lions roar for prey, seeking their food from God.
`Ps 104:22` When the sun rises, they withdraw and sleep in their dens.
`Ps 104:23` Men then go out to do their work, and labor away until evening.
`Ps 104:24` How many living things you have made, O Lord! You have exhibited great skill in making all of them; the earth is full of the living things you have made.

## The Vastness and Mystery of God's Creation
¶`Ps 104:25` Over here is the deep, wide sea, which teems with innumerable swimming creatures, living things both small and large.
`Ps 104:26` The ships travel there, and over here swims the whale you made to play in it.
`Ps 104:27` All of your creatures wait for you to provide them with food on a regular basis.
`Ps 104:28` You give food to them and they receive it; you open your hand and they are filled with food.
`Ps 104:29` When you ignore them, they panic. When you take away their life’s breath, they die and return to dust.
`Ps 104:30` When you send your life-giving breath, they are created, and you replenish the surface of the ground.

## The Role of Humanity in Praising and Preserving God's Creation
¶`Ps 104:31` May the splendor of the Lord endure! May the Lord find pleasure in the living things he has made!
`Ps 104:32` He looks down on the earth and it shakes; he touches the mountains and they start to smolder.
`Ps 104:33` I will sing to the Lord as long as I live; I will sing praise to my God as long as I exist!
`Ps 104:34` May my thoughts be pleasing to him! I will rejoice in the Lord.
`Ps 104:35` May sinners disappear from the earth, and the wicked vanish! Praise the Lord, O my soul! Praise the Lord!
