# Psalms 105

## Introduction: Gratitude and Praise for God's Wondrous Works
¶`Ps 105:1` Give thanks to the Lord! Call on his name! Make known his accomplishments among the nations!
`Ps 105:2` Sing to him! Make music to him! Tell about all his miraculous deeds!
`Ps 105:3` Boast about his holy name! Let the hearts of those who seek the Lord rejoice!
`Ps 105:4` Seek the Lord and the strength he gives! Seek his presence continually!
`Ps 105:5` Recall the miraculous deeds he performed, his mighty acts and the judgments he decreed,

## God's Covenant with Abraham
¶`Ps 105:6` O children of Abraham, God’s servant, you descendants of Jacob, God’s chosen ones!
`Ps 105:7` He is the Lord our God; he carries out judgment throughout the earth.
`Ps 105:8` He always remembers his covenantal decree, the promise he made to a thousand generations –
`Ps 105:9` the promise he made to Abraham, the promise he made by oath to Isaac!
`Ps 105:10` He gave it to Jacob as a decree, to Israel as a lasting promise,
`Ps 105:11` saying, “To you I will give the land of Canaan as the portion of your inheritance.”

## God's Providence During Israel's Wandering in Canaan
¶`Ps 105:12` When they were few in number, just a very few, and resident foreigners within it,
`Ps 105:13` they wandered from nation to nation, and from one kingdom to another.
`Ps 105:14` He let no one oppress them; he disciplined kings for their sake,
`Ps 105:15` saying, “Don’t touch my chosen ones! Don’t harm my prophets!”
`Ps 105:16` He called down a famine upon the earth; he cut off all the food supply.
`Ps 105:17` He sent a man ahead of them – Joseph was sold as a servant.
`Ps 105:18` The shackles hurt his feet; his neck was placed in an iron collar,
`Ps 105:19` until the time when his prediction came true. The Lord’s word proved him right.
`Ps 105:20` The king authorized his release; the ruler of nations set him free.
`Ps 105:21` He put him in charge of his palace, and made him manager of all his property,
`Ps 105:22` giving him authority to imprison his officials and to teach his advisers.
`Ps 105:23` Israel moved to Egypt; Jacob lived for a time in the land of Ham.
`Ps 105:24` The Lord made his people very fruitful, and made them more numerous than their enemies.

## God's Miraculous Plagues in Egypt
¶`Ps 105:25` He caused them to hate his people, and to mistreat his servants.
`Ps 105:26` He sent his servant Moses, and Aaron, whom he had chosen.
`Ps 105:27` They executed his miraculous signs among them, and his amazing deeds in the land of Ham.
`Ps 105:28` He made it dark; they did not disobey his orders.
`Ps 105:29` He turned their water into blood, and killed their fish.
`Ps 105:30` Their land was overrun by frogs, which even got into the rooms of their kings.
`Ps 105:31` He ordered flies to come; gnats invaded their whole territory.
`Ps 105:32` He sent hail along with the rain; there was lightning in their land.
`Ps 105:33` He destroyed their vines and fig trees, and broke the trees throughout their territory.
`Ps 105:34` He ordered locusts to come, innumerable grasshoppers.
`Ps 105:35` They ate all the vegetation in their land, and devoured the crops of their fields.
`Ps 105:36` He struck down all the firstborn in their land, the firstfruits of their reproductive power.
`Ps 105:37` He brought his people out enriched with silver and gold; none of his tribes stumbled.
`Ps 105:38` Egypt was happy when they left, for they were afraid of them.

## God's Guidance and Provision in the Wilderness
¶`Ps 105:39` He spread out a cloud for a cover, and provided a fire to light up the night.
`Ps 105:40` They asked for food, and he sent quails; he satisfied them with food from the sky.
`Ps 105:41` He opened up a rock and water flowed out; a river ran through dry regions.
`Ps 105:42` Yes, he remembered the sacred promise he made to Abraham his servant.
`Ps 105:43` When he led his people out, they rejoiced; his chosen ones shouted with joy.
`Ps 105:44` He handed the territory of nations over to them, and they took possession of what other peoples had produced,
`Ps 105:45` so that they might keep his commands and obey his laws. Praise the Lord!
