# Psalms 107

## Introduction: Thanksgiving for God's Steadfast Love
¶`Ps 107:1` Give thanks to the Lord, for he is good, and his loyal love endures!
`Ps 107:2` Let those delivered by the Lord speak out, those whom he delivered from the power of the enemy,
`Ps 107:3` and gathered from foreign lands, from east and west, from north and south.

## God's Deliverance of Wanderers in the Wilderness
¶`Ps 107:4` They wandered through the wilderness, in a wasteland; they found no road to a city in which to live.
`Ps 107:5` They were hungry and thirsty; they fainted from exhaustion.
`Ps 107:6` They cried out to the Lord in their distress; he delivered them from their troubles.
`Ps 107:7` He led them on a level road, that they might find a city in which to live.
`Ps 107:8` Let them give thanks to the Lord for his loyal love, and for the amazing things he has done for people!
`Ps 107:9` For he has satisfied those who thirst, and those who hunger he has filled with food.

## God's Deliverance of Prisoners from Darkness
¶`Ps 107:10` They sat in utter darkness, bound in painful iron chains,
`Ps 107:11` because they had rebelled against God’s commands, and rejected the instructions of the Most High.
`Ps 107:12` So he used suffering to humble them; they stumbled and no one helped them up.
`Ps 107:13` They cried out to the Lord in their distress; he delivered them from their troubles.
`Ps 107:14` He brought them out of the utter darkness, and tore off their shackles.
`Ps 107:15` Let them give thanks to the Lord for his loyal love, and for the amazing things he has done for people!
`Ps 107:16` For he shattered the bronze gates, and hacked through the iron bars.

## God's Healing of the Sick and Afflicted
¶`Ps 107:17` They acted like fools in their rebellious ways, and suffered because of their sins.
`Ps 107:18` They lost their appetite for all food, and they drew near the gates of death.
`Ps 107:19` They cried out to the Lord in their distress; he delivered them from their troubles.
`Ps 107:20` He sent them an assuring word and healed them; he rescued them from the pits where they were trapped.
`Ps 107:21` Let them give thanks to the Lord for his loyal love, and for the amazing things he has done for people!
`Ps 107:22` Let them present thank offerings, and loudly proclaim what he has done!

## God's Help for Seafarers in the Stormy Sea
¶`Ps 107:23` Some traveled on the sea in ships, and carried cargo over the vast waters.
`Ps 107:24` They witnessed the acts of the Lord, his amazing feats on the deep water.
`Ps 107:25` He gave the order for a windstorm, and it stirred up the waves of the sea.
`Ps 107:26` They reached up to the sky, then dropped into the depths. The sailors’ strength left them because the danger was so great.
`Ps 107:27` They swayed and staggered like a drunk, and all their skill proved ineffective.
`Ps 107:28` They cried out to the Lord in their distress; he delivered them from their troubles.
`Ps 107:29` He calmed the storm, and the waves grew silent.
`Ps 107:30` The sailors rejoiced because the waves grew quiet, and he led them to the harbor they desired.
`Ps 107:31` Let them give thanks to the Lord for his loyal love, and for the amazing things he has done for people!
`Ps 107:32` Let them exalt him in the assembly of the people! Let them praise him in the place where the leaders preside!

## God's Providence Over the Changing Fortunes of People
¶`Ps 107:33` He turned streams into a desert, springs of water into arid land,
`Ps 107:34` and a fruitful land into a barren place, because of the sin of its inhabitants.
`Ps 107:35` As for his people, he turned a desert into a pool of water, and a dry land into springs of water.
`Ps 107:36` He allowed the hungry to settle there, and they established a city in which to live.
`Ps 107:37` They cultivated fields, and planted vineyards, which yielded a harvest of fruit.
`Ps 107:38` He blessed them so that they became very numerous. He would not allow their cattle to decrease in number.
`Ps 107:39` As for their enemies, they decreased in number and were beaten down, because of painful distress and suffering.
`Ps 107:40` He would pour contempt upon princes, and he made them wander in a wasteland with no road.
`Ps 107:41` Yet he protected the needy from oppression, and cared for his families like a flock of sheep.
`Ps 107:42` When the godly see this, they rejoice, and every sinner shuts his mouth.

## Conclusion: The Wisdom of God's Powerful Works
¶`Ps 107:43` Whoever is wise, let him take note of these things! Let them consider the Lord’s acts of loyal love!
