# Psalms 109

## Introduction
¶[Ps 109:1] For the music director, a psalm of David. O God whom I praise, do not ignore me!
[Ps 109:2] For they say cruel and deceptive things to me; they lie to me.
[Ps 109:3] They surround me and say hateful things; they attack me for no reason.
[Ps 109:4] They repay my love with accusations, but I continue to pray.
[Ps 109:5] They repay me evil for good, and hate for love.

## Curses for the Wicked
¶[Ps 109:6] Appoint an evil man to testify against him! May an accuser stand at his right side!
[Ps 109:7] When he is judged, he will be found guilty! Then his prayer will be regarded as sinful.
[Ps 109:8] May his days be few! May another take his job!
[Ps 109:9] May his children be fatherless, and his wife a widow!
[Ps 109:10] May his children roam around begging, asking for handouts as they leave their ruined home!
[Ps 109:11] May the creditor seize all he owns! May strangers loot his property!
[Ps 109:12] May no one show him kindness! May no one have compassion on his fatherless children!
[Ps 109:13] May his descendants be cut off! May the memory of them be wiped out by the time the next generation arrives!
[Ps 109:14] May his ancestors’ sins be remembered by the Lord! May his mother’s sin not be forgotten!
[Ps 109:15] May the Lord be constantly aware of them, and cut off the memory of his children from the earth!

## Implications of the Wicked's Actions
¶[Ps 109:16] For he never bothered to show kindness; he harassed the oppressed and needy, and killed the disheartened.
[Ps 109:17] He loved to curse others, so those curses have come upon him. He had no desire to bless anyone, so he has experienced no blessings.
[Ps 109:18] He made cursing a way of life, so curses poured into his stomach like water and seeped into his bones like oil.
[Ps 109:19] May a curse attach itself to him, like a garment one puts on, or a belt one wears continually!
[Ps 109:20] May the Lord repay my accusers in this way, those who say evil things about me!

## Prayer for Vindication
¶[Ps 109:21] O sovereign Lord, intervene on my behalf for the sake of your reputation! Because your loyal love is good, deliver me!
[Ps 109:22] For I am oppressed and needy, and my heart beats violently within me.
[Ps 109:23] I am fading away like a shadow at the end of the day; I am shaken off like a locust.
[Ps 109:24] I am so starved my knees shake; I have turned into skin and bones.
[Ps 109:25] I am disdained by them. When they see me, they shake their heads.
[Ps 109:26] Help me, O Lord my God! Because you are faithful to me, deliver me!
[Ps 109:27] Then they will realize this is your work, and that you, Lord, have accomplished it.
[Ps 109:28] They curse, but you will bless. When they attack, they will be humiliated, but your servant will rejoice.
[Ps 109:29] My accusers will be covered with shame, and draped in humiliation as if it were a robe.

## Declaration of Praise
¶[Ps 109:30] I will thank the Lord profusely, in the middle of a crowd I will praise him,
[Ps 109:31] because he stands at the right hand of the needy, to deliver him from those who threaten his life.
