# Psalms 115

## Praise and Glory to the Living God
¶[Ps 115:1] Not to us, O Lord, not to us! But to your name bring honor, for the sake of your loyal love and faithfulness.
[Ps 115:2] Why should the nations say, “Where is their God?”
[Ps 115:3] Our God is in heaven! He does whatever he pleases!

## The Folly of Idolatry
¶[Ps 115:4] Their idols are made of silver and gold – they are man-made.
[Ps 115:5] They have mouths, but cannot speak, eyes, but cannot see,
[Ps 115:6] ears, but cannot hear, noses, but cannot smell,
[Ps 115:7] hands, but cannot touch, feet, but cannot walk. They cannot even clear their throats.
[Ps 115:8] Those who make them will end up like them, as will everyone who trusts in them.

## Confidence in the Lord
¶[Ps 115:9] O Israel, trust in the Lord! He is their deliverer and protector.
[Ps 115:10] O family of Aaron, trust in the Lord! He is their deliverer and protector.
[Ps 115:11] You loyal followers of the Lord, trust in the Lord! He is their deliverer and protector.

## The Blessings of Trusting in God
¶[Ps 115:12] The Lord takes notice of us, he will bless – he will bless the family of Israel, he will bless the family of Aaron.
[Ps 115:13] He will bless his loyal followers, both young and old.
[Ps 115:14] May he increase your numbers, yours and your children’s!
[Ps 115:15] May you be blessed by the Lord, the Creator of heaven and earth!

## The Power of God in Heaven and Earth
¶[Ps 115:16] The heavens belong to the Lord, but the earth he has given to mankind.

## The Destiny of the Dead Without God
¶[Ps 115:17] The dead do not praise the Lord, nor do any of those who descend into the silence of death.
[Ps 115:18] But we will praise the Lord now and forevermore. Praise the Lord!
