# Psalms 116

## Introduction: A Psalmist's Love for the Lord
¶`Ps 116:1` I love the Lord because he heard my plea for mercy,
`Ps 116:2` and listened to me. As long as I live, I will call to him when I need help.

## Divine Rescue in the Face of Death
¶`Ps 116:3` The ropes of death tightened around me, the snares of Sheol confronted me. I was confronted with trouble and sorrow.
`Ps 116:4` I called on the name of the Lord, “Please Lord, rescue my life!”
`Ps 116:5` The Lord is merciful and fair; our God is compassionate.
`Ps 116:6` The Lord protects the untrained; I was in serious trouble and he delivered me.

## The Psalmist's Testimony of Peace and Rest
¶`Ps 116:7` Rest once more, my soul, for the Lord has vindicated you.
`Ps 116:8` Yes, Lord, you rescued my life from death, kept my eyes from tears and my feet from stumbling.

## The Psalmist's Focus on Serving God in the Land of the Living
¶`Ps 116:9` I will serve the Lord in the land of the living.
`Ps 116:10` I had faith when I said, “I am severely oppressed.”
`Ps 116:11` I rashly declared, “All men are liars.”

## Grateful Response to God's Benevolence
¶`Ps 116:12` How can I repay the Lord for all his acts of kindness to me?
`Ps 116:13` I will celebrate my deliverance, and call on the name of the Lord.
`Ps 116:14` I will fulfill my vows to the Lord before all his people.

## The Value and Preciousness of God's Servants
¶`Ps 116:15` The Lord values the lives of his faithful followers.

## Dedication to a Life of Servitude
¶`Ps 116:16` Yes, Lord! I am indeed your servant; I am your servant, the son of your female servant. You saved me from death.
`Ps 116:17` I will present a thank offering to you, and call on the name of the Lord.

## Public Proclamation of God's Goodness
¶`Ps 116:18` I will fulfill my vows to the Lord before all his people,
`Ps 116:19` in the courts of the Lord’s temple, in your midst, O Jerusalem. Praise the Lord!
