# Psalms 118

## Introduction: The Faithfulness and Enduring Love of God
¶[Ps 118:1] Give thanks to the Lord, for he is good and his loyal love endures!
[Ps 118:2] Let Israel say, “Yes, his loyal love endures!”
[Ps 118:3] Let the family of Aaron say, “Yes, his loyal love endures!”
[Ps 118:4] Let the loyal followers of the Lord say, “Yes, his loyal love endures!”

## The Psalmist's Personal Testimony of God's Deliverance
¶[Ps 118:5] In my distress I cried out to the Lord. The Lord answered me and put me in a wide open place.
[Ps 118:6] The Lord is on my side, I am not afraid! What can people do to me?
[Ps 118:7] The Lord is on my side as my helper. I look in triumph on those who hate me.
[Ps 118:8] It is better to take shelter in the Lord than to trust in people.
[Ps 118:9] It is better to take shelter in the Lord than to trust in princes.
[Ps 118:10] All the nations surrounded me. Indeed, in the name of the Lord I pushed them away.
[Ps 118:11] They surrounded me, yes, they surrounded me. Indeed, in the name of the Lord I pushed them away.
[Ps 118:12] They surrounded me like bees. But they disappeared as quickly as a fire among thorns. Indeed, in the name of the Lord I pushed them away.
[Ps 118:13] “You aggressively attacked me and tried to knock me down, but the Lord helped me.
[Ps 118:14] The Lord gives me strength and protects me; he has become my deliverer.”

## Thanksgiving for the Victory and Deliverance
¶[Ps 118:15] They celebrate deliverance in the tents of the godly. The Lord’s right hand conquers,
[Ps 118:16] the Lord’s right hand gives victory, the Lord’s right hand conquers.
[Ps 118:17] I will not die, but live, and I will proclaim what the Lord has done.
[Ps 118:18] The Lord severely punished me, but he did not hand me over to death.
[Ps 118:19] Open for me the gates of the just king’s temple! I will enter through them and give thanks to the Lord.
[Ps 118:20] This is the Lord’s gate – the godly enter through it.
[Ps 118:21] I will give you thanks, for you answered me, and have become my deliverer.

## The Stone That Became the Cornerstone
¶[Ps 118:22] The stone which the builders discarded has become the cornerstone.
[Ps 118:23] This is the Lord’s work. We consider it amazing!

## The Day of Celebration and Blessings
¶[Ps 118:24] This is the day the Lord has brought about. We will be happy and rejoice in it.
[Ps 118:25] Please Lord, deliver! Please Lord, grant us success!
[Ps 118:26] May the one who comes in the name of the Lord be blessed! We will pronounce blessings on you in the Lord’s temple.
[Ps 118:27] The Lord is God and he has delivered us. Tie the offering with ropes to the horns of the altar!
[Ps 118:28] You are my God and I will give you thanks! You are my God and I will praise you!
[Ps 118:29] Give thanks to the Lord, for he is good and his loyal love endures!
