# Psalms 119

## Aleph: Blessedness of the Law-Abiding
¶`Ps 119:1` How blessed are those whose actions are blameless, who obey the law of the Lord.
`Ps 119:2` How blessed are those who observe his rules, and seek him with all their heart,
`Ps 119:3` who, moreover, do no wrong, but follow in his footsteps.
`Ps 119:4` You demand that your precepts be carefully kept.
`Ps 119:5` If only I were predisposed to keep your statutes!
`Ps 119:6` Then I would not be ashamed, if I were focused on all your commands.
`Ps 119:7` I will give you sincere thanks, when I learn your just regulations.
`Ps 119:8` I will keep your statutes. Do not completely abandon me!

## Beth: The Cleansing Effect of God's Word
¶`Ps 119:9` How can a young person maintain a pure life? By guarding it according to your instructions!
`Ps 119:10` With all my heart I seek you. Do not allow me to stray from your commands!
`Ps 119:11` In my heart I store up your words, so I might not sin against you.
`Ps 119:12` You deserve praise, O Lord! Teach me your statutes!
`Ps 119:13` With my lips I proclaim all the regulations you have revealed.
`Ps 119:14` I rejoice in the lifestyle prescribed by your rules as if they were riches of all kinds.
`Ps 119:15` I will meditate on your precepts and focus on your behavior.
`Ps 119:16` I find delight in your statutes; I do not forget your instructions.

## Gimel: Divine Guidance Sought and Celebrated
¶`Ps 119:17` Be kind to your servant! Then I will live and keep your instructions.
`Ps 119:18` Open my eyes so I can truly see the marvelous things in your law!
`Ps 119:19` I am a resident foreigner in this land. Do not hide your commands from me!
`Ps 119:20` I desperately long to know your regulations at all times.
`Ps 119:21` You reprimand arrogant people. Those who stray from your commands are doomed.
`Ps 119:22` Spare me shame and humiliation, for I observe your rules.
`Ps 119:23` Though rulers plot and slander me, your servant meditates on your statutes.
`Ps 119:24` Yes, I find delight in your rules; they give me guidance.

## Daleth: Reviving the Soul with God's Word
¶`Ps 119:25` I collapse in the dirt. Revive me with your word!
`Ps 119:26` I told you about my ways and you answered me. Teach me your statutes!
`Ps 119:27` Help me to understand what your precepts mean! Then I can meditate on your marvelous teachings.
`Ps 119:28` I collapse from grief. Sustain me by your word!
`Ps 119:29` Remove me from the path of deceit! Graciously give me your law!
`Ps 119:30` I choose the path of faithfulness; I am committed to your regulations.
`Ps 119:31` I hold fast to your rules. O Lord, do not let me be ashamed!
`Ps 119:32` I run along the path of your commands, for you enable me to do so.

## He: Praying for Instruction and Understanding
¶`Ps 119:33` Teach me, O Lord, the lifestyle prescribed by your statutes, so that I might observe it continually.
`Ps 119:34` Give me understanding so that I might observe your law, and keep it with all my heart.
`Ps 119:35` Guide me in the path of your commands, for I delight to walk in it.
`Ps 119:36` Give me a desire for your rules, rather than for wealth gained unjustly.
`Ps 119:37` Turn my eyes away from what is worthless! Revive me with your word!
`Ps 119:38` Confirm to your servant your promise, which you made to the one who honors you.
`Ps 119:39` Take away the insults that I dread! Indeed, your regulations are good.
`Ps 119:40` Look, I long for your precepts. Revive me with your deliverance!

## Waw: Trusting and Proclaiming God's Promises
¶`Ps 119:41` May I experience your loyal love, O Lord, and your deliverance, as you promised.
`Ps 119:42` Then I will have a reply for the one who insults me, for I trust in your word.
`Ps 119:43` Do not completely deprive me of a truthful testimony, for I await your justice.
`Ps 119:44` Then I will keep your law continually now and for all time.
`Ps 119:45` I will be secure, for I seek your precepts.
`Ps 119:46` I will speak about your regulations before kings and not be ashamed.
`Ps 119:47` I will find delight in your commands, which I love.
`Ps 119:48` I will lift my hands to your commands, which I love, and I will meditate on your statutes.

## Zayin: Finding Comfort in God's Statutes
¶`Ps 119:49` Remember your word to your servant, for you have given me hope.
`Ps 119:50` This is what comforts me in my trouble, for your promise revives me.
`Ps 119:51` Arrogant people do nothing but scoff at me. Yet I do not turn aside from your law.
`Ps 119:52` I remember your ancient regulations, O Lord, and console myself.
`Ps 119:53` Rage takes hold of me because of the wicked, those who reject your law.
`Ps 119:54` Your statutes have been my songs in the house where I live.
`Ps 119:55` I remember your name during the night, O Lord, and I will keep your law.
`Ps 119:56` This has been my practice, for I observe your precepts.

## Heth: Renewed Commitment and Gratitude for God's Law
¶`Ps 119:57` The Lord is my source of security. I have determined to follow your instructions.
`Ps 119:58` I seek your favor with all my heart. Have mercy on me as you promised!
`Ps 119:59` I consider my actions and follow your rules.
`Ps 119:60` I keep your commands eagerly and without delay.
`Ps 119:61` The ropes of the wicked tighten around me, but I do not forget your law.
`Ps 119:62` In the middle of the night I arise to thank you for your just regulations.
`Ps 119:63` I am a friend to all your loyal followers, and to those who keep your precepts.
`Ps 119:64` O Lord, your loyal love fills the earth. Teach me your statutes!

## Teth: God's Discipline and the Value of His Word
¶`Ps 119:65` You are good to your servant, O Lord, just as you promised.
`Ps 119:66` Teach me proper discernment and understanding! For I consider your commands to be reliable.
`Ps 119:67` Before I was afflicted I used to stray off, but now I keep your instructions.
`Ps 119:68` You are good and you do good. Teach me your statutes!
`Ps 119:69` Arrogant people smear my reputation with lies, but I observe your precepts with all my heart.
`Ps 119:70` Their hearts are calloused, but I find delight in your law.
`Ps 119:71` It was good for me to suffer, so that I might learn your statutes.
`Ps 119:72` The law you have revealed is more important to me than thousands of pieces of gold and silver.

## Yodh: Upholding the Testimonies of God
¶`Ps 119:73` Your hands made me and formed me. Give me understanding so that I might learn your commands.
`Ps 119:74` Your loyal followers will be glad when they see me, for I find hope in your word.
`Ps 119:75` I know, Lord, that your regulations are just. You disciplined me because of your faithful devotion to me.
`Ps 119:76` May your loyal love console me, as you promised your servant.
`Ps 119:77` May I experience your compassion, so I might live! For I find delight in your law.
`Ps 119:78` May the arrogant be humiliated, for they have slandered me! But I meditate on your precepts.
`Ps 119:79` May your loyal followers turn to me, those who know your rules.
`Ps 119:80` May I be fully committed to your statutes, so that I might not be ashamed.

## Kaph: Longing and Trust in Times of Trial
¶`Ps 119:81` I desperately long for your deliverance. I find hope in your word.
`Ps 119:82` My eyes grow tired as I wait for your promise to be fulfilled. I say, “When will you comfort me?”
`Ps 119:83` For I am like a wineskin dried up in smoke. I do not forget your statutes.
`Ps 119:84` How long must your servant endure this? When will you judge those who pursue me?
`Ps 119:85` The arrogant dig pits to trap me, which violates your law.
`Ps 119:86` All your commands are reliable. I am pursued without reason. Help me!
`Ps 119:87` They have almost destroyed me here on the earth, but I do not reject your precepts.
`Ps 119:88` Revive me with your loyal love, that I might keep the rules you have revealed.

## Lamedh: The Eternity and Sufficiency of God's Word
¶`Ps 119:89` O Lord, your instructions endure; they stand secure in heaven.
`Ps 119:90` You demonstrate your faithfulness to all generations. You established the earth and it stood firm.
`Ps 119:91` Today they stand firm by your decrees, for all things are your servants.
`Ps 119:92` If I had not found encouragement in your law, I would have died in my sorrow.
`Ps 119:93` I will never forget your precepts, for by them you have revived me.
`Ps 119:94` I belong to you. Deliver me! For I seek your precepts.
`Ps 119:95` The wicked prepare to kill me, yet I concentrate on your rules.
`Ps 119:96` I realize that everything has its limits, but your commands are beyond full comprehension.

## Mem: The Sweetness and Wisdom of God's Commandments
¶`Ps 119:97` O how I love your law! All day long I meditate on it.
`Ps 119:98` Your commandments make me wiser than my enemies, for I am always aware of them.
`Ps 119:99` I have more insight than all my teachers, for I meditate on your rules.
`Ps 119:100` I am more discerning than those older than I, for I observe your precepts.
`Ps 119:101` I stay away from every evil path, so that I might keep your instructions.
`Ps 119:102` I do not turn aside from your regulations, for you teach me.
`Ps 119:103` Your words are sweeter in my mouth than honey!
`Ps 119:104` Your precepts give me discernment. Therefore I hate all deceitful actions.

## Nun: God's Word as a Guiding Light
¶`Ps 119:105` Your word is a lamp to walk by, and a light to illumine my path.
`Ps 119:106` I have vowed and solemnly sworn to keep your just regulations.
`Ps 119:107` I am suffering terribly. O Lord, revive me with your word!
`Ps 119:108` O Lord, please accept the freewill offerings of my praise! Teach me your regulations!
`Ps 119:109` My life is in continual danger, but I do not forget your law.
`Ps 119:110` The wicked lay a trap for me, but I do not wander from your precepts.
`Ps 119:111` I claim your rules as my permanent possession, for they give me joy.
`Ps 119:112` I am determined to obey your statutes at all times, to the very end.

## Samekh: Strength and Preservation Through Obedience
¶`Ps 119:113` I hate people with divided loyalties, but I love your law.
`Ps 119:114` You are my hiding place and my shield. I find hope in your word.
`Ps 119:115` Turn away from me, you evil men, so that I can observe the commands of my God.
`Ps 119:116` Sustain me as you promised, so that I will live. Do not disappoint me!
`Ps 119:117` Support me, so that I will be delivered. Then I will focus on your statutes continually.
`Ps 119:118` You despise all who stray from your statutes, for they are deceptive and unreliable.
`Ps 119:119` You remove all the wicked of the earth like slag. Therefore I love your rules.
`Ps 119:120` My body trembles because I fear you; I am afraid of your judgments.

## Ayin: Desiring Justice and Hating Falsehood
¶`Ps 119:121` I do what is fair and right. Do not abandon me to my oppressors!
`Ps 119:122` Guarantee the welfare of your servant! Do not let the arrogant oppress me!
`Ps 119:123` My eyes grow tired as I wait for your deliverance, for your reliable promise to be fulfilled.
`Ps 119:124` Show your servant your loyal love! Teach me your statutes!
`Ps 119:125` I am your servant. Give me insight, so that I can understand your rules.
`Ps 119:126` It is time for the Lord to act – they break your law!
`Ps 119:127` For this reason I love your commands more than gold, even purest gold.
`Ps 119:128` For this reason I carefully follow all your precepts. I hate all deceitful actions.

## Pe: Enlightened and Grieved by God's Word
¶`Ps 119:129` Your rules are marvelous. Therefore I observe them.
`Ps 119:130` Your instructions are a doorway through which light shines. They give insight to the untrained.
`Ps 119:131` I open my mouth and pant, because I long for your commands.
`Ps 119:132` Turn toward me and extend mercy to me, as you typically do to your loyal followers.
`Ps 119:133` Direct my steps by your word! Do not let any sin dominate me!
`Ps 119:134` Deliver me from oppressive men, so that I can keep your precepts.
`Ps 119:135` Smile on your servant! Teach me your statutes!
`Ps 119:136` Tears stream down from my eyes, because people do not keep your law.

## Tsadhe: Holiness and Righteousness of God's Commandments
¶`Ps 119:137` You are just, O Lord, and your judgments are fair.
`Ps 119:138` The rules you impose are just, and absolutely reliable.
`Ps 119:139` My zeal consumes me, for my enemies forget your instructions.
`Ps 119:140` Your word is absolutely pure, and your servant loves it!
`Ps 119:141` I am insignificant and despised, yet I do not forget your precepts.
`Ps 119:142` Your justice endures, and your law is reliable.
`Ps 119:143` Distress and hardship confront me, yet I find delight in your commands.
`Ps 119:144` Your rules remain just. Give me insight so that I can live.

## Qoph: Calling Out to God with Wholehearted Devotion
¶`Ps 119:145` I cried out with all my heart, “Answer me, O Lord! I will observe your statutes.”
`Ps 119:146` I cried out to you, “Deliver me, so that I can keep your rules.”
`Ps 119:147` I am up before dawn crying for help. I find hope in your word.
`Ps 119:148` My eyes anticipate the nighttime hours, so that I can meditate on your word.
`Ps 119:149` Listen to me because of your loyal love! O Lord, revive me, as you typically do!
`Ps 119:150` Those who are eager to do wrong draw near; they are far from your law.
`Ps 119:151` You are near, O Lord, and all your commands are reliable.
`Ps 119:152` I learned long ago that you ordained your rules to last.

## Resh: Deliverance and Mercy Through God's Word
¶`Ps 119:153` See my pain and rescue me! For I do not forget your law.
`Ps 119:154` Fight for me and defend me! Revive me with your word!
`Ps 119:155` The wicked have no chance for deliverance, for they do not seek your statutes.
`Ps 119:156` Your compassion is great, O Lord. Revive me, as you typically do!
`Ps 119:157` The enemies who chase me are numerous. Yet I do not turn aside from your rules.
`Ps 119:158` I take note of the treacherous and despise them, because they do not keep your instructions.
`Ps 119:159` See how I love your precepts! O Lord, revive me with your loyal love!
`Ps 119:160` Your instructions are totally reliable; all your just regulations endure.

## Shin: Peace and Joy in God's Word Despite Persecution
¶`Ps 119:161` Rulers pursue me for no reason, yet I am more afraid of disobeying your instructions.
`Ps 119:162` I rejoice in your instructions, like one who finds much plunder.
`Ps 119:163` I hate and despise deceit; I love your law.
`Ps 119:164` Seven times a day I praise you because of your just regulations.
`Ps 119:165` Those who love your law are completely secure; nothing causes them to stumble.
`Ps 119:166` I hope for your deliverance, O Lord, and I obey your commands.
`Ps 119:167` I keep your rules; I love them greatly.
`Ps 119:168` I keep your precepts and rules, for you are aware of everything I do.

## Taw: Petition for Guidance and Protection as God's Servant
¶`Ps 119:169` Listen to my cry for help, O Lord! Give me insight by your word!
`Ps 119:170` Listen to my appeal for mercy! Deliver me, as you promised.
`Ps 119:171` May praise flow freely from my lips, for you teach me your statutes.
`Ps 119:172` May my tongue sing about your instructions, for all your commands are just.
`Ps 119:173` May your hand help me, for I choose to obey your precepts.
`Ps 119:174` I long for your deliverance, O Lord; I find delight in your law.
`Ps 119:175` May I live and praise you! May your regulations help me!
`Ps 119:176` I have wandered off like a lost sheep. Come looking for your servant, for I do not forget your commands.
