# Psalms 132

## Introduction: A Song in Honor of God's Faithfulness
¶`Ps 132:1` A song of ascents. O Lord, for David’s sake remember all his strenuous effort,
`Ps 132:2` and how he made a vow to the Lord, and swore an oath to the Powerful One of Jacob.

## David's Passion for God's House
¶`Ps 132:3` He said, “I will not enter my own home, or get into my bed.
`Ps 132:4` I will not allow my eyes to sleep, or my eyelids to slumber,
`Ps 132:5` until I find a place for the Lord, a fine dwelling place for the Powerful One of Jacob.”

## Pilgrimage to Worship and the Discovery of the Ark
¶`Ps 132:6` Look, we heard about it in Ephrathah, we found it in the territory of Jaar.
`Ps 132:7` Let us go to his dwelling place! Let us worship before his footstool!
`Ps 132:8` Ascend, O Lord, to your resting place, you and the ark of your strength!
`Ps 132:9` May your priests be clothed with integrity! May your loyal followers shout for joy!
`Ps 132:10` For the sake of David, your servant, do not reject your chosen king!

## God's Promises to David and Zion
¶`Ps 132:11` The Lord made a reliable promise to David; he will not go back on his word. He said, “I will place one of your descendants on your throne.
`Ps 132:12` If your sons keep my covenant and the rules I teach them, their sons will also sit on your throne forever.”
`Ps 132:13` Certainly the Lord has chosen Zion; he decided to make it his home.
`Ps 132:14` He said, “This will be my resting place forever; I will live here, for I have chosen it.
`Ps 132:15` I will abundantly supply what she needs; I will give her poor all the food they need.
`Ps 132:16` I will protect her priests, and her godly people will shout exuberantly.
`Ps 132:17` There I will make David strong; I have determined that my chosen king’s dynasty will continue.
`Ps 132:18` I will humiliate his enemies, and his crown will shine.
