# Psalms 135

## Call to Praise God
¶`Ps 135:1` Praise the Lord! Praise the name of the Lord! Offer praise, you servants of the Lord,
`Ps 135:2` who serve in the Lord’s temple, in the courts of the temple of our God.
`Ps 135:3` Praise the Lord, for the Lord is good! Sing praises to his name, for it is pleasant!
`Ps 135:4` Indeed, the Lord has chosen Jacob for himself, Israel to be his special possession.

## The Greatness of God
¶`Ps 135:5` Yes, I know the Lord is great, and our Lord is superior to all gods.
`Ps 135:6` He does whatever he pleases in heaven and on earth, in the seas and all the ocean depths.
`Ps 135:7` He causes the clouds to arise from the end of the earth, makes lightning bolts accompany the rain, and brings the wind out of his storehouses.
`Ps 135:8` He struck down the firstborn of Egypt, including both men and animals.
`Ps 135:9` He performed awesome deeds and acts of judgment in your midst, O Egypt, against Pharaoh and all his servants.
`Ps 135:10` He defeated many nations, and killed mighty kings –
`Ps 135:11` Sihon, king of the Amorites, and Og, king of Bashan, and all the kingdoms of Canaan.
`Ps 135:12` He gave their land as an inheritance, as an inheritance to Israel his people.

## The Lord's Name and Eternal Dominion
¶`Ps 135:13` O Lord, your name endures, your reputation, O Lord, lasts.
`Ps 135:14` For the Lord vindicates his people, and has compassion on his servants.

## The Vanity of Idols
¶`Ps 135:15` The nations’ idols are made of silver and gold, they are man-made.
`Ps 135:16` They have mouths, but cannot speak, eyes, but cannot see,
`Ps 135:17` and ears, but cannot hear. Indeed, they cannot breathe.
`Ps 135:18` Those who make them will end up like them, as will everyone who trusts in them.

## Benediction and Final Call to Praise
¶`Ps 135:19` O family of Israel, praise the Lord! O family of Aaron, praise the Lord!
`Ps 135:20` O family of Levi, praise the Lord! You loyal followers of the Lord, praise the Lord!
`Ps 135:21` The Lord deserves praise in Zion – he who dwells in Jerusalem. Praise the Lord!
