# Psalms 139

## Introduction: Declaration of God's Perfect Knowledge
¶[Ps 139:1] For the music director, a psalm of David. O Lord, you examine me and know.
[Ps 139:2] You know when I sit down and when I get up; even from far away you understand my motives.
[Ps 139:3] You carefully observe me when I travel or when I lie down to rest; you are aware of everything I do.
[Ps 139:4] Certainly my tongue does not frame a word without you, O Lord, being thoroughly aware of it.
[Ps 139:5] You squeeze me in from behind and in front; you place your hand on me.
[Ps 139:6] Your knowledge is beyond my comprehension; it is so far beyond me, I am unable to fathom it.

## God's Omnipresence: There is No Escape
¶[Ps 139:7] Where can I go to escape your Spirit? Where can I flee to escape your presence?
[Ps 139:8] If I were to ascend to heaven, you would be there. If I were to sprawl out in Sheol, there you would be.
[Ps 139:9] If I were to fly away on the wings of the dawn, and settle down on the other side of the sea,
[Ps 139:10] even there your hand would guide me, your right hand would grab hold of me.
[Ps 139:11] If I were to say, “Certainly the darkness will cover me, and the light will turn to night all around me,”
[Ps 139:12] even the darkness is not too dark for you to see, and the night is as bright as day; darkness and light are the same to you.

## God's Creativity: The Formation of Life
¶[Ps 139:13] Certainly you made my mind and heart; you wove me together in my mother’s womb.
[Ps 139:14] I will give you thanks because your deeds are awesome and amazing. You knew me thoroughly;
[Ps 139:15] my bones were not hidden from you, when I was made in secret and sewed together in the depths of the earth.
[Ps 139:16] Your eyes saw me when I was inside the womb. All the days ordained for me were recorded in your scroll before one of them came into existence.

## God's Thoughts: Innumerable and Precious
¶[Ps 139:17] How difficult it is for me to fathom your thoughts about me, O God! How vast is their sum total!
[Ps 139:18] If I tried to count them, they would outnumber the grains of sand. Even if I finished counting them, I would still have to contend with you.

## God's Justice: A Plea for Vindication
¶[Ps 139:19] If only you would kill the wicked, O God! Get away from me, you violent men!
[Ps 139:20] They rebel against you and act deceitfully; your enemies lie.
[Ps 139:21] O Lord, do I not hate those who hate you, and despise those who oppose you?
[Ps 139:22] I absolutely hate them, they have become my enemies!

## Conclusion: An Invitation for God's Examination
¶[Ps 139:23] Examine me, O God, and probe my thoughts! Test me, and know my concerns!
[Ps 139:24] See if there is any idolatrous way in me, and lead me in the everlasting way!
