# Psalms 143

## Invocation and Lament
¶`Ps 143:1` A psalm of David. O Lord, hear my prayer! Pay attention to my plea for help! Because of your faithfulness and justice, answer me!
`Ps 143:2` Do not sit in judgment on your servant, for no one alive is innocent before you.
`Ps 143:3` Certainly my enemies chase me. They smash me into the ground. They force me to live in dark regions, like those who have been dead for ages.
`Ps 143:4` My strength leaves me; I am absolutely shocked.

## Meditation on God's Past Acts and the Psalmist's Thirst for God
¶`Ps 143:5` I recall the old days; I meditate on all you have done; I reflect on your accomplishments.
`Ps 143:6` I spread my hands out to you in prayer; my soul thirsts for you in a parched land. (Selah)

## Petitions for Deliverance and Guidance
¶`Ps 143:7` Answer me quickly, Lord! My strength is fading. Do not reject me, or I will join those descending into the grave.
`Ps 143:8` May I hear about your loyal love in the morning, for I trust in you. Show me the way I should go, because I long for you.
`Ps 143:9` Rescue me from my enemies, O Lord! I run to you for protection.
`Ps 143:10` Teach me to do what pleases you, for you are my God. May your kind presence lead me into a level land.

## Prayer for the Preservation of Life and the Defeat of Enemies
¶`Ps 143:11` O Lord, for the sake of your reputation, revive me! Because of your justice, rescue me from trouble!
`Ps 143:12` As a demonstration of your loyal love, destroy my enemies! Annihilate all who threaten my life, for I am your servant.
