# Psalms 145

## Introduction: Praise and Exaltation
¶[Ps 145:1] A psalm of praise, by David. I will extol you, my God, O king! I will praise your name continually!
[Ps 145:2] Every day I will praise you! I will praise your name continually!

## The Greatness of God
¶[Ps 145:3] The Lord is great and certainly worthy of praise! No one can fathom his greatness!
[Ps 145:4] One generation will praise your deeds to another, and tell about your mighty acts!
[Ps 145:5] I will focus on your honor and majestic splendor, and your amazing deeds!
[Ps 145:6] They will proclaim the power of your awesome acts! I will declare your great deeds!
[Ps 145:7] They will talk about the fame of your great kindness, and sing about your justice.

## The Lord's Grace and Compassion
¶[Ps 145:8] The Lord is merciful and compassionate; he is patient and demonstrates great loyal love.
[Ps 145:9] The Lord is good to all, and has compassion on all he has made.

## The Glory of God's Kingdom
¶[Ps 145:10] All your works will give thanks to you, Lord. Your loyal followers will praise you.
[Ps 145:11] They will proclaim the splendor of your kingdom; they will tell about your power,
[Ps 145:12] so that mankind might acknowledge your mighty acts, and the majestic splendor of your kingdom.
[Ps 145:13] Your kingdom is an eternal kingdom, and your dominion endures through all generations.

## The Lord's Support and Provision
¶[Ps 145:14] The Lord supports all who fall, and lifts up all who are bent over.
[Ps 145:15] Everything looks to you in anticipation, and you provide them with food on a regular basis.
[Ps 145:16] You open your hand, and fill every living thing with the food they desire.

## The Lord's Righteousness and Kindness
¶[Ps 145:17] The Lord is just in all his actions, and exhibits love in all he does.
[Ps 145:18] The Lord is near all who cry out to him, all who cry out to him sincerely.
[Ps 145:19] He satisfies the desire of his loyal followers; he hears their cry for help and delivers them.
[Ps 145:20] The Lord protects all those who love him, but he destroys all the wicked.

## Conclusion: Praise and Proclamation of God's Name
¶[Ps 145:21] My mouth will praise the Lord. Let all who live praise his holy name forever!
