# Psalms 147

## Praise for God's Power, Care, and Providence
¶[Ps 147:1] Praise the Lord, for it is good to sing praises to our God! Yes, praise is pleasant and appropriate!
[Ps 147:2] The Lord rebuilds Jerusalem, and gathers the exiles of Israel.
[Ps 147:3] He heals the brokenhearted, and bandages their wounds.
[Ps 147:4] He counts the number of the stars; he names all of them.
[Ps 147:5] Our Lord is great and has awesome power; there is no limit to his wisdom.
[Ps 147:6] The Lord lifts up the oppressed, but knocks the wicked to the ground.

## God's Sovereignty Over Nature
¶[Ps 147:7] Offer to the Lord a song of thanks! Sing praises to our God to the accompaniment of a harp!
[Ps 147:8] He covers the sky with clouds, provides the earth with rain, and causes grass to grow on the hillsides.
[Ps 147:9] He gives food to the animals, and to the young ravens when they chirp.
[Ps 147:10] He is not enamored with the strength of a horse, nor is he impressed by the warrior’s strong legs.
[Ps 147:11] The Lord takes delight in his faithful followers, and in those who wait for his loyal love.

## God's Blessings Upon Jerusalem and His People
¶[Ps 147:12] Extol the Lord, O Jerusalem! Praise your God, O Zion!
[Ps 147:13] For he makes the bars of your gates strong. He blesses your children within you.
[Ps 147:14] He brings peace to your territory. He abundantly provides for you the best grain.

## Praise for God's Word and Commandments
¶[Ps 147:15] He sends his command through the earth; swiftly his order reaches its destination.
[Ps 147:16] He sends the snow that is white like wool; he spreads the frost that is white like ashes.
[Ps 147:17] He throws his hailstones like crumbs. Who can withstand the cold wind he sends?
[Ps 147:18] He then orders it all to melt; he breathes on it, and the water flows.

## Praise for God's Exclusive Relationship with Israel
¶[Ps 147:19] He proclaims his word to Jacob, his statutes and regulations to Israel.
[Ps 147:20] He has not done so with any other nation; they are not aware of his regulations. Praise the Lord!
