# Ephesians 3

## The mystery revealed to Paul
¶[Eph 3:1] For this reason I, Paul, the prisoner of Christ Jesus for the sake of you Gentiles
[Eph 3:2] if indeed you have heard of the stewardship of God’s grace that was given to me for you,
[Eph 3:3] that by revelation the mystery was made known to me, as I wrote before briefly.
[Eph 3:4] When reading this, you will be able to understand my insight into the mystery of Christ
[Eph 3:5] (which was not disclosed to people in former generations as it has now been revealed to his holy apostles and prophets by the Spirit),
[Eph 3:6] namely, that through the gospel the Gentiles are fellow heirs, fellow members of the body, and fellow partakers of the promise in Christ Jesus.

## Paul's role as a minister to the Gentiles
¶[Eph 3:7] I became a servant of this gospel according to the gift of God’s grace that was given to me by the exercise of his power.
[Eph 3:8] To me – less than the least of all the saints – this grace was given, to proclaim to the Gentiles the unfathomable riches of Christ
[Eph 3:9] and to enlighten everyone about God’s secret plan – the mystery that has been hidden for ages in God who has created all things.
[Eph 3:10] The purpose of this enlightenment is that through the church the multifaceted wisdom of God should now be disclosed to the rulers and the authorities in the heavenly realms.
[Eph 3:11] This was according to the eternal purpose that he accomplished in Christ Jesus our Lord,
[Eph 3:12] in whom we have boldness and confident access to God by way of Christ’s faithfulness.
[Eph 3:13] For this reason I ask you not to lose heart because of what I am suffering for you, which is your glory.

## Paul's prayer for spiritual growth and unity
¶[Eph 3:14] For this reason I kneel before the Father,
[Eph 3:15] from whom every family in heaven and on earth is named.
[Eph 3:16] I pray that according to the wealth of his glory he will grant you to be strengthened with power through his Spirit in the inner person,
[Eph 3:17] that Christ will dwell in your hearts through faith, so that, because you have been rooted and grounded in love,
[Eph 3:18] you will be able to comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth and length and height and depth,
[Eph 3:19] and thus to know the love of Christ that surpasses knowledge, so that you will be filled up to all the fullness of God.

¶[Eph 3:20] Now to him who by the power that is working within us is able to do far beyond all that we ask or think,
[Eph 3:21] to him be the glory in the church and in Christ Jesus to all generations, forever and ever. Amen.
