# Ephesians 5

## Walking in love
¶[Eph 5:1] Therefore, be imitators of God as dearly loved children
[Eph 5:2] and live in love, just as Christ also loved us and gave himself for us, a sacrificial and fragrant offering to God.

¶[Eph 5:3] But among you there must not be either sexual immorality, impurity of any kind, or greed, as these are not fitting for the saints.
[Eph 5:4] Neither should there be vulgar speech, foolish talk, or coarse jesting – all of which are out of character – but rather thanksgiving.
[Eph 5:5] For you can be confident of this one thing: that no person who is immoral, impure, or greedy (such a person is an idolater) has any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and God.
[Eph 5:6] Let nobody deceive you with empty words, for because of these things God’s wrath comes on the sons of disobedience.
[Eph 5:7] Therefore do not be sharers with them,

## Walking as children of light
¶[Eph 5:8] for you were at one time darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. Live like children of light –
[Eph 5:9] for the fruit of the light consists in all goodness, righteousness, and truth –
[Eph 5:10] trying to learn what is pleasing to the Lord.
[Eph 5:11] Do not participate in the unfruitful deeds of darkness, but rather expose them.
[Eph 5:12] For the things they do in secret are shameful even to mention.
[Eph 5:13] But all things being exposed by the light are made visible.
[Eph 5:14] For everything made visible is light, and for this reason it says: “Awake, O sleeper! Rise from the dead, and Christ will shine on you!”

## Walking in wisdom
¶[Eph 5:15] Therefore consider carefully how you live – not as unwise but as wise,
[Eph 5:16] taking advantage of every opportunity, because the days are evil.
[Eph 5:17] For this reason do not be foolish, but be wise by understanding what the Lord’s will is.
[Eph 5:18] And do not get drunk with wine, which is debauchery, but be filled by the Spirit,
[Eph 5:19] speaking to one another in psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs, singing and making music in your hearts to the Lord,
[Eph 5:20] always giving thanks to God the Father for each other in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ,
[Eph 5:21] and submitting to one another out of reverence for Christ.

## Wives and husbands
¶[Eph 5:22] Wives, submit to your husbands as to the Lord,
[Eph 5:23] because the husband is the head of the wife as also Christ is the head of the church (he himself being the savior of the body).
[Eph 5:24] But as the church submits to Christ, so also wives should submit to their husbands in everything.
[Eph 5:25] Husbands, love your wives just as Christ loved the church and gave himself for her
[Eph 5:26] to sanctify her by cleansing her with the washing of the water by the word,
[Eph 5:27] so that he may present the church to himself as glorious – not having a stain or wrinkle, or any such blemish, but holy and blameless.
[Eph 5:28] In the same way husbands ought to love their wives as their own bodies. He who loves his wife loves himself.
[Eph 5:29] For no one has ever hated his own body, but he feeds it and takes care of it, just as Christ also does the church,
[Eph 5:30] because we are members of his body.
[Eph 5:31] For this reason a man will leave his father and mother and will be joined to his wife, and the two will become one flesh.
[Eph 5:32] This mystery is great – but I am actually speaking with reference to Christ and the church.
[Eph 5:33] Nevertheless, each one of you must also love his own wife as he loves himself, and the wife must respect her husband.
