# Ecclesiastes 1

## Title of the Book
¶[Eccl 1:1] The words of the Teacher, the son of David, king in Jerusalem:

## Vanity of Vanities
¶[Eccl 1:2] “Futile! Futile!” laments the Teacher, “Absolutely futile! Everything is futile!”
[Eccl 1:3] What benefit do people get from all the effort which they expend on earth?

## The Futility of Transience
¶[Eccl 1:4] A generation comes and a generation goes, but the earth remains the same through the ages.
[Eccl 1:5] The sun rises and the sun sets; it hurries away to a place from which it rises again.
[Eccl 1:6] The wind goes to the south and circles around to the north; round and round the wind goes and on its rounds it returns.
[Eccl 1:7] All the streams flow into the sea, but the sea is not full, and to the place where the streams flow, there they will flow again.
[Eccl 1:8] All this monotony is tiresome; no one can bear to describe it: The eye is never satisfied with seeing, nor is the ear ever content with hearing.

¶[Eccl 1:9] What exists now is what will be, and what has been done is what will be done; there is nothing truly new on earth.
[Eccl 1:10] Is there anything about which someone can say, “Look at this! It is new!”? It was already done long ago, before our time.
[Eccl 1:11] No one remembers the former events, nor will anyone remember the events that are yet to happen; they will not be remembered by the future generations.

## Pursuit of Wisdom
¶[Eccl 1:12] I, the Teacher, have been king over Israel in Jerusalem.
[Eccl 1:13] I decided to carefully and thoroughly examine all that has been accomplished on earth. I concluded: God has given people a burdensome task that keeps them occupied.
[Eccl 1:14] I reflected on everything that is accomplished by man on earth, and I concluded: Everything he has accomplished is futile – like chasing the wind!
[Eccl 1:15] What is bent cannot be straightened, and what is missing cannot be supplied.

## The Limitations of Wisdom
¶[Eccl 1:16] I thought to myself, “I have become much wiser than any of my predecessors who ruled over Jerusalem; I have acquired much wisdom and knowledge.”
[Eccl 1:17] So I decided to discern the benefit of wisdom and knowledge over foolish behavior and ideas; however, I concluded that even this endeavor is like trying to chase the wind!
[Eccl 1:18] For with great wisdom comes great frustration; whoever increases his knowledge merely increases his heartache.
