# Ecclesiastes 4

## Oppression and Injustice
¶[Eccl 4:1] So I again considered all the oppression that continually occurs on earth. This is what I saw: The oppressed were in tears, but no one was comforting them; no one delivers them from the power of their oppressors.
[Eccl 4:2] So I considered those who are dead and gone more fortunate than those who are still alive.
[Eccl 4:3] But better than both is the one who has not been born and has not seen the evil things that are done on earth.

## Envy and Achievement
¶[Eccl 4:4] Then I considered all the skillful work that is done: Surely it is nothing more than competition between one person and another. This also is profitless – like chasing the wind.
[Eccl 4:5] The fool folds his hands and does no work, so he has nothing to eat but his own flesh.
[Eccl 4:6] Better is one handful with some rest than two hands full of toil and chasing the wind.

## The Folly of Selfish Toil
¶[Eccl 4:7] So I again considered another futile thing on earth:
[Eccl 4:8] A man who is all alone with no companion, he has no children nor siblings; yet there is no end to all his toil, and he is never satisfied with riches. He laments, “For whom am I toiling and depriving myself of pleasure?” This also is futile and a burdensome task!
[Eccl 4:9] Two people are better than one, because they can reap more benefit from their labor.
[Eccl 4:10] For if they fall, one will help his companion up, but pity the person who falls down and has no one to help him up.
[Eccl 4:11] Furthermore, if two lie down together, they can keep each other warm, but how can one person keep warm by himself?
[Eccl 4:12] Although an assailant may overpower one person, two can withstand him. Moreover, a three-stranded cord is not quickly broken.

## The Futility of Political Power
¶[Eccl 4:13] A poor but wise youth is better than an old and foolish king who no longer knows how to receive advice.
[Eccl 4:14] For he came out of prison to become king, even though he had been born poor in what would become his kingdom.
[Eccl 4:15] I considered all the living who walk on earth, as well as the successor who would arise in his place.
[Eccl 4:16] There is no end to all the people nor to the past generations, yet future generations will not rejoice in him. This also is profitless and like chasing the wind.
