# Ecclesiastes 7

## Proverbs on Wisdom
¶[Eccl 7:1] A good reputation is better than precious perfume; likewise, the day of one’s death is better than the day of one’s birth.
[Eccl 7:2] It is better to go to a funeral than a feast. For death is the destiny of every person, and the living should take this to heart.
[Eccl 7:3] Sorrow is better than laughter, because sober reflection is good for the heart.
[Eccl 7:4] The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning, but the heart of fools is in the house of merrymaking.
[Eccl 7:5] It is better for a person to receive a rebuke from those who are wise than to listen to the song of fools.
[Eccl 7:6] For like the crackling of quick-burning thorns under a cooking pot, so is the laughter of the fool. This kind of folly also is useless.
[Eccl 7:7] Surely oppression can turn a wise person into a fool; likewise, a bribe corrupts the heart.
[Eccl 7:8] The end of a matter is better than its beginning; likewise, patience is better than pride.
[Eccl 7:9] Do not let yourself be quickly provoked, for anger resides in the lap of fools.
[Eccl 7:10] Do not say, “Why were the old days better than these days?” for it is not wise to ask that.
[Eccl 7:11] Wisdom, like an inheritance, is a good thing; it benefits those who see the light of day.
[Eccl 7:12] For wisdom provides protection, just as money provides protection. But the advantage of knowledge is this: Wisdom preserves the life of its owner.
[Eccl 7:13] Consider the work of God: For who can make straight what he has bent?
[Eccl 7:14] In times of prosperity be joyful, but in times of adversity consider this: God has made one as well as the other, so that no one can discover what the future holds.

## The Paradox of Wickedness and Righteousness
¶[Eccl 7:15] During the days of my fleeting life I have seen both of these things: Sometimes a righteous person dies prematurely in spite of his righteousness, and sometimes a wicked person lives long in spite of his evil deeds.
[Eccl 7:16] So do not be excessively righteous or excessively wise; otherwise you might be disappointed.
[Eccl 7:17] Do not be excessively wicked and do not be a fool; otherwise you might die before your time.
[Eccl 7:18] It is best to take hold of one warning without letting go of the other warning; for the one who fears God will follow both warnings.

## The Folly of Extremes
¶[Eccl 7:19] Wisdom gives a wise person more protection than ten rulers in a city.
[Eccl 7:20] For there is not one truly righteous person on the earth who continually does good and never sins.
[Eccl 7:21] Also, do not pay attention to everything that people say; otherwise, you might even hear your servant cursing you.
[Eccl 7:22] For you know in your own heart that you also have cursed others many times.
[Eccl 7:23] I have examined all this by wisdom; I said, “I am determined to comprehend this” – but it was beyond my grasp.
[Eccl 7:24] Whatever has happened is beyond human understanding; it is far deeper than anyone can fathom.

## Women, Wisdom, and Folly
¶[Eccl 7:25] I tried to understand, examine, and comprehend the role of wisdom in the scheme of things, and to understand the stupidity of wickedness and the insanity of folly.
[Eccl 7:26] I discovered this: More bitter than death is the kind of woman who is like a hunter’s snare; her heart is like a hunter’s net and her hands are like prison chains. The man who pleases God escapes her, but the sinner is captured by her.
[Eccl 7:27] The Teacher says: I discovered this while trying to discover the scheme of things, item by item.
[Eccl 7:28] What I have continually sought, I have not found; I have found only one upright man among a thousand, but I have not found one upright woman among all of them.
[Eccl 7:29] This alone have I discovered: God made humankind upright, but they have sought many evil schemes.
