# Ecclesiastes 10

## The Contrast of Wisdom and Folly
¶[Eccl 10:1] One dead fly makes the perfumer’s ointment give off a rancid stench, so a little folly can outweigh much wisdom.
[Eccl 10:2] A wise person’s good sense protects him, but a fool’s lack of sense leaves him vulnerable.
[Eccl 10:3] Even when a fool walks along the road he lacks sense, and shows everyone what a fool he is.
[Eccl 10:4] If the anger of the ruler flares up against you, do not resign from your position, for a calm response can undo great offenses.
[Eccl 10:5] I have seen another misfortune on the earth: It is an error a ruler makes.
[Eccl 10:6] Fools are placed in many positions of authority, while wealthy men sit in lowly positions.
[Eccl 10:7] I have seen slaves on horseback and princes walking on foot like slaves.

## Wisdom and Folly in Work
¶[Eccl 10:8] One who digs a pit may fall into it, and one who breaks through a wall may be bitten by a snake.
[Eccl 10:9] One who quarries stones may be injured by them; one who splits logs may be endangered by them.
[Eccl 10:10] If an iron axhead is blunt and a workman does not sharpen its edge, he must exert a great deal of effort; so wisdom has the advantage of giving success.
[Eccl 10:11] If the snake should bite before it is charmed, the snake charmer is in trouble.
[Eccl 10:12] The words of a wise person win him favor, but the words of a fool are self-destructive.
[Eccl 10:13] At the beginning his words are foolish and at the end his talk is wicked madness,
[Eccl 10:14] yet a fool keeps on babbling. No one knows what will happen; who can tell him what will happen in the future?
[Eccl 10:15] The toil of a stupid fool wears him out, because he does not even know the way to the city.

## Wisdom in Ruling
¶[Eccl 10:16] Woe to you, O land, when your king is childish, and your princes feast in the morning!
[Eccl 10:17] Blessed are you, O land, when your king is the son of nobility, and your princes feast at the proper time – with self-control and not in drunkenness.
[Eccl 10:18] Because of laziness the roof caves in, and because of idle hands the house leaks.
[Eccl 10:19] Feasts are made for laughter, and wine makes life merry, but money is the answer for everything.
[Eccl 10:20] Do not curse a king even in your thoughts, and do not curse the rich while in your bedroom; for a bird might report what you are thinking, or some winged creature might repeat your words.
