# Mark 7

## Teachings on Clean and Unclean, and Healing of a Gentile Woman
¶[Mark 7:1] Now the Pharisees and some of the experts in the law who came from Jerusalem gathered around him.
[Mark 7:2] And they saw that some of Jesus’ disciples ate their bread with unclean hands, that is, unwashed.
[Mark 7:3] (For the Pharisees and all the Jews do not eat unless they perform a ritual washing, holding fast to the tradition of the elders.
[Mark 7:4] And when they come from the marketplace, they do not eat unless they wash. They hold fast to many other traditions: the washing of cups, pots, kettles, and dining couches.)
[Mark 7:5] The Pharisees and the experts in the law asked him, “Why do your disciples not live according to the tradition of the elders, but eat with unwashed hands?”
[Mark 7:6] He said to them, “Isaiah prophesied correctly about you hypocrites, as it is written: ‘This people honors me with their lips, but their heart is far from me.
[Mark 7:7] They worship me in vain, teaching as doctrine the commandments of men.’

¶[Mark 7:8] Having no regard for the command of God, you hold fast to human tradition.”
[Mark 7:9] He also said to them, “You neatly reject the commandment of God in order to set up your tradition.
[Mark 7:10] For Moses said, ‘Honor your father and your mother,’ and, ‘Whoever insults his father or mother must be put to death.’
[Mark 7:11] But you say that if anyone tells his father or mother, ‘Whatever help you would have received from me is corban’ (that is, a gift for God),
[Mark 7:12] then you no longer permit him to do anything for his father or mother.
[Mark 7:13] Thus you nullify the word of God by your tradition that you have handed down. And you do many things like this.”
[Mark 7:14] Then he called the crowd again and said to them, “Listen to me, everyone, and understand.
[Mark 7:15] There is nothing outside of a person that can defile him by going into him. Rather, it is what comes out of a person that defiles him.”
[Mark 7:17] Now when Jesus had left the crowd and entered the house, his disciples asked him about the parable.
[Mark 7:18] He said to them, “Are you so foolish? Don’t you understand that whatever goes into a person from outside cannot defile him?
[Mark 7:19] For it does not enter his heart but his stomach, and then goes out into the sewer.” (This means all foods are clean.)
[Mark 7:20] He said, “What comes out of a person defiles him.
[Mark 7:21] For from within, out of the human heart, come evil ideas, sexual immorality, theft, murder,
[Mark 7:22] adultery, greed, evil, deceit, debauchery, envy, slander, pride, and folly.
[Mark 7:23] All these evils come from within and defile a person.”

¶[Mark 7:24] After Jesus left there, he went to the region of Tyre. When he went into a house, he did not want anyone to know, but he was not able to escape notice.
[Mark 7:25] Instead, a woman whose young daughter had an unclean spirit immediately heard about him and came and fell at his feet.
[Mark 7:26] The woman was a Greek, of Syrophoenician origin. She asked him to cast the demon out of her daughter.
[Mark 7:27] He said to her, “Let the children be satisfied first, for it is not right to take the children’s bread and to throw it to the dogs.”
[Mark 7:28] She answered, “Yes, Lord, but even the dogs under the table eat the children’s crumbs.”
[Mark 7:29] Then he said to her, “Because you said this, you may go. The demon has left your daughter.”
[Mark 7:30] She went home and found the child lying on the bed, and the demon gone.

## Healing the Deaf and Mute Man and Feeding the Four Thousand
¶[Mark 7:31] Then Jesus went out again from the region of Tyre and came through Sidon to the Sea of Galilee in the region of the Decapolis.
[Mark 7:32] They brought to him a deaf man who had difficulty speaking, and they asked him to place his hands on him.
[Mark 7:33] After Jesus took him aside privately, away from the crowd, he put his fingers in the man’s ears, and after spitting, he touched his tongue.
[Mark 7:34] Then he looked up to heaven and said with a sigh, “Ephphatha” (that is, “Be opened”).
[Mark 7:35] And immediately the man’s ears were opened, his tongue loosened, and he spoke plainly.
[Mark 7:36] Jesus ordered them not to tell anyone. But as much as he ordered them not to do this, they proclaimed it all the more.
[Mark 7:37] People were completely astounded and said, “He has done everything well. He even makes the deaf hear and the mute speak.”
