# Mark 15

## Jesus before Pilate, Crucifixion, and Death
¶`Mark 15:1` Early in the morning, after forming a plan, the chief priests with the elders and the experts in the law and the whole Sanhedrin tied Jesus up, led him away, and handed him over to Pilate.
`Mark 15:2` So Pilate asked him, “Are you the king of the Jews?” He replied, “You say so.”
`Mark 15:3` Then the chief priests began to accuse him repeatedly.
`Mark 15:4` So Pilate asked him again, “Have you nothing to say? See how many charges they are bringing against you!”
`Mark 15:5` But Jesus made no further reply, so that Pilate was amazed.

¶`Mark 15:6` During the feast it was customary to release one prisoner to the people, whomever they requested.
`Mark 15:7` A man named Barabbas was imprisoned with rebels who had committed murder during an insurrection.
`Mark 15:8` Then the crowd came up and began to ask Pilate to release a prisoner for them, as was his custom.
`Mark 15:9` So Pilate asked them, “Do you want me to release the king of the Jews for you?”
`Mark 15:10` (For he knew that the chief priests had handed him over because of envy.)
`Mark 15:11` But the chief priests stirred up the crowd to have him release Barabbas instead.
`Mark 15:12` So Pilate spoke to them again, “Then what do you want me to do with the one you call king of the Jews?”
`Mark 15:13` They shouted back, “Crucify him!”
`Mark 15:14` Pilate asked them, “Why? What has he done wrong?” But they shouted more insistently, “Crucify him!”
`Mark 15:15` Because he wanted to satisfy the crowd, Pilate released Barabbas for them. Then, after he had Jesus flogged, he handed him over to be crucified.

¶`Mark 15:16` So the soldiers led him into the palace (that is, the governor’s residence) and called together the whole cohort.
`Mark 15:17` They put a purple cloak on him and after braiding a crown of thorns, they put it on him.
`Mark 15:18` They began to salute him: “Hail, king of the Jews!”
`Mark 15:19` Again and again they struck him on the head with a staff and spit on him. Then they knelt down and paid homage to him.
`Mark 15:20` When they had finished mocking him, they stripped him of the purple cloak and put his own clothes back on him. Then they led him away to crucify him.

¶`Mark 15:21` The soldiers forced a passerby to carry his cross, Simon of Cyrene, who was coming in from the country (he was the father of Alexander and Rufus).

¶`Mark 15:22` They brought Jesus to a place called Golgotha (which is translated, “Place of the Skull”).
`Mark 15:23` They offered him wine mixed with myrrh, but he did not take it.
`Mark 15:24` Then they crucified him and divided his clothes, throwing dice for them, to decide what each would take.
`Mark 15:25` It was nine o’clock in the morning when they crucified him.
`Mark 15:26` The inscription of the charge against him read, “The king of the Jews.”
`Mark 15:27` And they crucified two outlaws with him, one on his right and one on his left.
`Mark 15:29` Those who passed by defamed him, shaking their heads and saying, “Aha! You who can destroy the temple and rebuild it in three days,
`Mark 15:30` save yourself and come down from the cross!”
`Mark 15:31` In the same way even the chief priests – together with the experts in the law – were mocking him among themselves: “He saved others, but he cannot save himself!
`Mark 15:32` Let the Christ, the king of Israel, come down from the cross now, that we may see and believe!” Those who were crucified with him also spoke abusively to him.

¶`Mark 15:33` Now when it was noon, darkness came over the whole land until three in the afternoon.
`Mark 15:34` Around three o’clock Jesus cried out with a loud voice, “Eloi, Eloi, lema sabachthani?” which means, “My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?”
`Mark 15:35` When some of the bystanders heard it they said, “Listen, he is calling for Elijah!”
`Mark 15:36` Then someone ran, filled a sponge with sour wine, put it on a stick, and gave it to him to drink, saying, “Leave him alone! Let’s see if Elijah will come to take him down!”
`Mark 15:37` But Jesus cried out with a loud voice and breathed his last.
`Mark 15:38` And the temple curtain was torn in two, from top to bottom.
`Mark 15:39` Now when the centurion, who stood in front of him, saw how he died, he said, “Truly this man was God’s Son!”
`Mark 15:40` There were also women, watching from a distance. Among them were Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James the younger and of Joses, and Salome.
`Mark 15:41` When he was in Galilee, they had followed him and given him support. Many other women who had come up with him to Jerusalem were there too.

¶`Mark 15:42` Now when evening had already come, since it was the day of preparation (that is, the day before the Sabbath),
`Mark 15:43` Joseph of Arimathea, a highly regarded member of the council, who was himself looking forward to the kingdom of God, went boldly to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus.
`Mark 15:44` Pilate was surprised that he was already dead. He called the centurion and asked him if he had been dead for some time.
`Mark 15:45` When Pilate was informed by the centurion, he gave the body to Joseph.
`Mark 15:46` After Joseph bought a linen cloth and took down the body, he wrapped it in the linen and placed it in a tomb cut out of the rock. Then he rolled a stone across the entrance of the tomb.
`Mark 15:47` Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of Joses saw where the body was placed.
