# John 10

## The Good Shepherd
¶`John 10:1` “I tell you the solemn truth, the one who does not enter the sheepfold by the door, but climbs in some other way, is a thief and a robber.
`John 10:2` The one who enters by the door is the shepherd of the sheep.
`John 10:3` The doorkeeper opens the door for him, and the sheep hear his voice. He calls his own sheep by name and leads them out.
`John 10:4` When he has brought all his own sheep out, he goes ahead of them, and the sheep follow him because they recognize his voice.
`John 10:5` They will never follow a stranger, but will run away from him, because they do not recognize the stranger’s voice.”
`John 10:6` Jesus told them this parable, but they did not understand what he was saying to them.

¶`John 10:7` So Jesus said again, “I tell you the solemn truth, I am the door for the sheep.
`John 10:8` All who came before me were thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not listen to them.
`John 10:9` I am the door. If anyone enters through me, he will be saved, and will come in and go out, and find pasture.
`John 10:10` The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy; I have come so that they may have life, and may have it abundantly.
`John 10:11` “I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep.
`John 10:12` The hired hand, who is not a shepherd and does not own sheep, sees the wolf coming and abandons the sheep and runs away. So the wolf attacks the sheep and scatters them.
`John 10:13` Because he is a hired hand and is not concerned about the sheep, he runs away.
`John 10:14` “I am the good shepherd. I know my own and my own know me –
`John 10:15` just as the Father knows me and I know the Father – and I lay down my life for the sheep.
`John 10:16` I have other sheep that do not come from this sheepfold. I must bring them too, and they will listen to my voice, so that there will be one flock and one shepherd.
`John 10:17` This is why the Father loves me – because I lay down my life, so that I may take it back again.
`John 10:18` No one takes it away from me, but I lay it down of my own free will. I have the authority to lay it down, and I have the authority to take it back again. This commandment I received from my Father.”

¶`John 10:19` Another sharp division took place among the Jewish people because of these words.
`John 10:20` Many of them were saying, “He is possessed by a demon and has lost his mind! Why do you listen to him?”
`John 10:21` Others said, “These are not the words of someone possessed by a demon. A demon cannot cause the blind to see, can it?”

## Jesus at the Feast of Dedication
¶`John 10:22` Then came the feast of the Dedication in Jerusalem.
`John 10:23` It was winter, and Jesus was walking in the temple area in Solomon’s Portico.
`John 10:24` The Jewish leaders surrounded him and asked, “How long will you keep us in suspense? If you are the Christ, tell us plainly.”
`John 10:25` Jesus replied, “I told you and you do not believe. The deeds I do in my Father’s name testify about me.
`John 10:26` But you refuse to believe because you are not my sheep.
`John 10:27` My sheep listen to my voice, and I know them, and they follow me.
`John 10:28` I give them eternal life, and they will never perish; no one will snatch them from my hand.
`John 10:29` My Father, who has given them to me, is greater than all, and no one can snatch them from my Father’s hand.
`John 10:30` The Father and I are one.”
`John 10:31` The Jewish leaders picked up rocks again to stone him to death.
`John 10:32` Jesus said to them, “I have shown you many good deeds from the Father. For which one of them are you going to stone me?”
`John 10:33` The Jewish leaders replied, “We are not going to stone you for a good deed but for blasphemy, because you, a man, are claiming to be God.”
`John 10:34` Jesus answered, “Is it not written in your law, ‘I said, you are gods’?
`John 10:35` If those people to whom the word of God came were called ‘gods’ (and the scripture cannot be broken),
`John 10:36` do you say about the one whom the Father set apart and sent into the world, ‘You are blaspheming,’ because I said, ‘I am the Son of God’?
`John 10:37` If I do not perform the deeds of my Father, do not believe me.
`John 10:38` But if I do them, even if you do not believe me, believe the deeds, so that you may come to know and understand that I am in the Father and the Father is in me.”
`John 10:39` Then they attempted again to seize him, but he escaped their clutches.

¶`John 10:40` Jesus went back across the Jordan River again to the place where John had been baptizing at an earlier time, and he stayed there.
`John 10:41` Many came to him and began to say, “John performed no miraculous sign, but everything John said about this man was true!”
`John 10:42` And many believed in Jesus there.
