# John 20

## The Empty Tomb
¶[John 20:1] Now very early on the first day of the week, while it was still dark, Mary Magdalene came to the tomb and saw that the stone had been moved away from the entrance.
[John 20:2] So she went running to Simon Peter and the other disciple whom Jesus loved and told them, “They have taken the Lord from the tomb, and we don’t know where they have put him!”
[John 20:3] Then Peter and the other disciple set out to go to the tomb.
[John 20:4] The two were running together, but the other disciple ran faster than Peter and reached the tomb first.
[John 20:5] He bent down and saw the strips of linen cloth lying there, but he did not go in.
[John 20:6] Then Simon Peter, who had been following him, arrived and went right into the tomb. He saw the strips of linen cloth lying there,
[John 20:7] and the face cloth, which had been around Jesus’ head, not lying with the strips of linen cloth but rolled up in a place by itself.
[John 20:8] Then the other disciple, who had reached the tomb first, came in, and he saw and believed.
[John 20:9] (For they did not yet understand the scripture that Jesus must rise from the dead.)
[John 20:10] So the disciples went back to their homes.

## Jesus Appears to Mary Magdalene
¶[John 20:11] But Mary stood outside the tomb weeping. As she wept, she bent down and looked into the tomb.
[John 20:12] And she saw two angels in white sitting where Jesus’ body had been lying, one at the head and one at the feet.
[John 20:13] They said to her, “Woman, why are you weeping?” Mary replied, “They have taken my Lord away, and I do not know where they have put him!”
[John 20:14] When she had said this, she turned around and saw Jesus standing there, but she did not know that it was Jesus.
[John 20:15] Jesus said to her, “Woman, why are you weeping? Who are you looking for?” Because she thought he was the gardener, she said to him, “Sir, if you have carried him away, tell me where you have put him, and I will take him.”
[John 20:16] Jesus said to her, “Mary.” She turned and said to him in Aramaic, “Rabboni” (which means Teacher).
[John 20:17] Jesus replied, “Do not touch me, for I have not yet ascended to my Father. Go to my brothers and tell them, ‘I am ascending to my Father and your Father, to my God and your God.’”
[John 20:18] Mary Magdalene came and informed the disciples, “I have seen the Lord!” And she told them what Jesus had said to her.

## Jesus Appears to His Disciples
¶[John 20:19] On the evening of that day, the first day of the week, the disciples had gathered together and locked the doors of the place because they were afraid of the Jewish leaders. Jesus came and stood among them and said to them, “Peace be with you.”
[John 20:20] When he had said this, he showed them his hands and his side. Then the disciples rejoiced when they saw the Lord.
[John 20:21] So Jesus said to them again, “Peace be with you. Just as the Father has sent me, I also send you.”
[John 20:22] And after he said this, he breathed on them and said, “Receive the Holy Spirit.
[John 20:23] If you forgive anyone’s sins, they are forgiven; if you retain anyone’s sins, they are retained.”

## Jesus and Thomas
¶[John 20:24] Now Thomas (called Didymus), one of the twelve, was not with them when Jesus came.
[John 20:25] The other disciples told him, “We have seen the Lord!” But he replied, “Unless I see the wounds from the nails in his hands, and put my finger into the wounds from the nails, and put my hand into his side, I will never believe it!”

¶[John 20:26] Eight days later the disciples were again together in the house, and Thomas was with them. Although the doors were locked, Jesus came and stood among them and said, “Peace be with you!”
[John 20:27] Then he said to Thomas, “Put your finger here, and examine my hands. Extend your hand and put it into my side. Do not continue in your unbelief, but believe.”
[John 20:28] Thomas replied to him, “My Lord and my God!”
[John 20:29] Jesus said to him, “Have you believed because you have seen me? Blessed are the people who have not seen and yet have believed.”

## The Purpose of John's Gospel
¶[John 20:30] Now Jesus performed many other miraculous signs in the presence of the disciples, which are not recorded in this book.
[John 20:31] But these are recorded so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in his name.
