# 1 Kings 17

## Elijah's confrontation with Ahab and the drought
¶[1Kgs 17:1] Elijah the Tishbite, from Tishbe in Gilead, said to Ahab, “As certainly as the Lord God of Israel lives (whom I serve), there will be no dew or rain in the years ahead unless I give the command.”
[1Kgs 17:2] The Lord’s message came to him:
[1Kgs 17:3] “Leave here and travel eastward. Hide out in the Kerith Valley near the Jordan.
[1Kgs 17:4] Drink from the stream; I have already told the ravens to bring you food there.”
[1Kgs 17:5] So he carried out the Lord’s message; he went and lived in the Kerith Valley near the Jordan.
[1Kgs 17:6] The ravens would bring him bread and meat each morning and evening, and he would drink from the stream.
[1Kgs 17:7] After a while, the stream dried up because there had been no rain in the land.

## The widow of Zarephath
¶[1Kgs 17:8] The Lord’s message came to him,
[1Kgs 17:9] “Get up, go to Zarephath in Sidonian territory, and live there. I have already told a widow who lives there to provide for you.”
[1Kgs 17:10] So he got up and went to Zarephath. When he went through the city gate, there was a widow gathering wood. He called out to her, “Please give me a little water in a cup, so I can take a drink.”
[1Kgs 17:11] As she went to get it, he called out to her, “Please bring me a piece of bread.”
[1Kgs 17:12] She said, “As certainly as the Lord your God lives, I have no food, except for a handful of flour in a jar and a little olive oil in a jug. Right now I am gathering a couple of sticks for a fire. Then I’m going home to make one final meal for my son and myself. After we have eaten that, we will die of starvation.”
[1Kgs 17:13] Elijah said to her, “Don’t be afraid. Go and do as you planned. But first make me a small cake and bring it to me; then make something for yourself and your son.
[1Kgs 17:14] For this is what the Lord God of Israel has said, ‘The jar of flour will not be empty and the jug of oil will not run out until the day the Lord makes it rain on the surface of the ground.’”
[1Kgs 17:15] She went and did as Elijah told her; there was always enough food for Elijah and for her and her family.
[1Kgs 17:16] The jar of flour was never empty and the jug of oil never ran out, in keeping with the Lord’s message that he had spoken through Elijah.

¶[1Kgs 17:17] After this the son of the woman who owned the house got sick. His illness was so severe he could no longer breathe.
[1Kgs 17:18] She asked Elijah, “Why, prophet, have you come to me to confront me with my sin and kill my son?”
[1Kgs 17:19] He said to her, “Hand me your son.” He took him from her arms, carried him to the upper room where he was staying, and laid him down on his bed.
[1Kgs 17:20] Then he called out to the Lord, “O Lord, my God, are you also bringing disaster on this widow I am staying with by killing her son?”
[1Kgs 17:21] He stretched out over the boy three times and called out to the Lord, “O Lord, my God, please let this boy’s breath return to him.”
[1Kgs 17:22] The Lord answered Elijah’s prayer; the boy’s breath returned to him and he lived.
[1Kgs 17:23] Elijah took the boy, brought him down from the upper room to the house, and handed him to his mother. Elijah then said, “See, your son is alive!”
[1Kgs 17:24] The woman said to Elijah, “Now I know that you are a prophet and that the Lord’s message really does come through you.”
