# 1 Kings 21

## Naboth's vineyard and Ahab's covetousness
¶[1Kgs 21:1] After this the following episode took place. Naboth the Jezreelite owned a vineyard in Jezreel adjacent to the palace of King Ahab of Samaria.
[1Kgs 21:2] Ahab said to Naboth, “Give me your vineyard so I can make a vegetable garden out of it, for it is adjacent to my palace. I will give you an even better vineyard in its place, or if you prefer, I will pay you silver for it.”
[1Kgs 21:3] But Naboth replied to Ahab, “The Lord forbid that I should sell you my ancestral inheritance.”
[1Kgs 21:4] So Ahab went into his palace, bitter and angry that Naboth the Jezreelite had said, “I will not sell to you my ancestral inheritance.” He lay down on his bed, pouted, and would not eat.

¶[1Kgs 21:5] Then his wife Jezebel came in and said to him, “Why do you have a bitter attitude and refuse to eat?”
[1Kgs 21:6] He answered her, “While I was talking to Naboth the Jezreelite, I said to him, ‘Sell me your vineyard for silver, or if you prefer, I will give you another vineyard in its place.’ But he said, ‘I will not sell you my vineyard.’”
[1Kgs 21:7] His wife Jezebel said to him, “You are the king of Israel! Get up, eat some food, and have a good time. I will get the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite for you.”
[1Kgs 21:8] She wrote out orders, signed Ahab’s name to them, and sealed them with his seal. She then sent the orders to the leaders and to the nobles who lived in Naboth’s city.
[1Kgs 21:9] This is what she wrote: “Observe a time of fasting and seat Naboth in front of the people.
[1Kgs 21:10] Also seat two villains opposite him and have them testify, ‘You cursed God and the king.’ Then take him out and stone him to death.”

¶[1Kgs 21:11] The men of the city, the leaders and the nobles who lived there, followed the written orders Jezebel had sent them.
[1Kgs 21:12] They observed a time of fasting and put Naboth in front of the people.
[1Kgs 21:13] The two villains arrived and sat opposite him. Then the villains testified against Naboth right before the people, saying, “Naboth cursed God and the king.” So they dragged him outside the city and stoned him to death.
[1Kgs 21:14] Then they reported to Jezebel, “Naboth has been stoned to death.”
[1Kgs 21:15] When Jezebel heard that Naboth had been stoned to death, she said to Ahab, “Get up, take possession of the vineyard Naboth the Jezreelite refused to sell you for silver, for Naboth is no longer alive; he’s dead.”
[1Kgs 21:16] When Ahab heard that Naboth was dead, he got up and went down to take possession of the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite.

## Elijah pronounces judgment on Ahab and Jezebel
¶[1Kgs 21:17] The Lord’s message came to Elijah the Tishbite:
[1Kgs 21:18] “Get up, go down and meet King Ahab of Israel who lives in Samaria. He is at the vineyard of Naboth; he has gone down there to take possession of it.
[1Kgs 21:19] Say to him, ‘This is what the Lord has said: “Haven’t you committed murder and taken possession of the property of the deceased?”’ Then say to him, ‘This is what the Lord has said: “In the spot where dogs licked up Naboth’s blood they will also lick up your blood – yes, yours!”’”
[1Kgs 21:20] When Elijah arrived, Ahab said to him, “So, you have found me, my enemy!” Elijah replied, “I have found you, because you are committed to doing evil in the sight of the Lord.
[1Kgs 21:21] The Lord says, ‘Look, I am ready to bring disaster on you. I will destroy you and cut off every last male belonging to Ahab in Israel, including even the weak and incapacitated.
[1Kgs 21:22] I will make your dynasty like those of Jeroboam son of Nebat and Baasha son of Ahijah because you angered me and made Israel sin.’
[1Kgs 21:23] The Lord says this about Jezebel, ‘Dogs will devour Jezebel by the outer wall of Jezreel.’
[1Kgs 21:24] As for Ahab’s family, dogs will eat the ones who die in the city, and the birds of the sky will eat the ones who die in the country.”
[1Kgs 21:25] (There had never been anyone like Ahab, who was firmly committed to doing evil in the sight of the Lord, urged on by his wife Jezebel.
[1Kgs 21:26] He was so wicked he worshiped the disgusting idols, just like the Amorites whom the Lord had driven out from before the Israelites.)

¶[1Kgs 21:27] When Ahab heard these words, he tore his clothes, put on sackcloth, and fasted. He slept in sackcloth and walked around dejected.
[1Kgs 21:28] The Lord’s message came to Elijah the Tishbite,
[1Kgs 21:29] “Have you noticed how Ahab shows remorse before me? Because he shows remorse before me, I will not bring disaster on his dynasty during his lifetime, but during the reign of his son.”
