# 1 Kings 22

## The alliance with Jehoshaphat and the battle against Aram
¶[1Kgs 22:1] There was no war between Syria and Israel for three years.
[1Kgs 22:2] In the third year King Jehoshaphat of Judah came down to visit the king of Israel.
[1Kgs 22:3] The king of Israel said to his servants, “Surely you recognize that Ramoth Gilead belongs to us, though we are hesitant to reclaim it from the king of Syria.”
[1Kgs 22:4] Then he said to Jehoshaphat, “Will you go with me to attack Ramoth Gilead?” Jehoshaphat replied to the king of Israel, “I will support you; my army and horses are at your disposal.”

¶[1Kgs 22:5] But then Jehoshaphat said to Israel’s king, “Please seek a message from the Lord this very day.”
[1Kgs 22:6] So the king of Israel assembled about four hundred prophets and asked them, “Should I attack Ramoth Gilead or not?” They said, “Attack! The Sovereign One will hand it over to the king.”
[1Kgs 22:7] But Jehoshaphat asked, “Is there not a prophet of the Lord still here, that we may ask him?”
[1Kgs 22:8] The king of Israel answered Jehoshaphat, “There is still one man through whom we can seek the Lord’s will. But I despise him because he does not prophesy prosperity for me, but disaster. His name is Micaiah son of Imlah.” Jehoshaphat said, “The king should not say such things.”
[1Kgs 22:9] The king of Israel summoned an official and said, “Quickly bring Micaiah son of Imlah.”
[1Kgs 22:10] Now the king of Israel and King Jehoshaphat of Judah were sitting on their respective thrones, dressed in their robes, at the threshing floor at the entrance of the gate of Samaria. All the prophets were prophesying before them.
[1Kgs 22:11] Zedekiah son of Kenaanah made iron horns and said, “This is what the Lord has said, ‘With these you will gore Syria until they are destroyed.’”
[1Kgs 22:12] All the prophets were prophesying the same, saying, “Attack Ramoth Gilead! You will succeed; the Lord will hand it over to the king.”

¶[1Kgs 22:13] Now the messenger who went to summon Micaiah said to him, “Look, the prophets are in complete agreement that the king will succeed. Your words must agree with theirs; you must predict success.”
[1Kgs 22:14] But Micaiah said, “As certainly as the Lord lives, I will say what the Lord tells me to say.”
[1Kgs 22:15] When he came before the king, the king asked him, “Micaiah, should we attack Ramoth Gilead or not?” He answered him, “Attack! You will succeed; the Lord will hand it over to the king.”
[1Kgs 22:16] The king said to him, “How many times must I make you solemnly promise in the name of the Lord to tell me only the truth?”
[1Kgs 22:17] Micaiah said, “I saw all Israel scattered on the mountains like sheep that have no shepherd. Then the Lord said, ‘They have no master. They should go home in peace.’”
[1Kgs 22:18] The king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, “Didn’t I tell you he does not prophesy prosperity for me, but disaster?”
[1Kgs 22:19] Micaiah said, “That being the case, listen to the Lord’s message. I saw the Lord sitting on his throne, with all the heavenly assembly standing beside him on his right and on his left.
[1Kgs 22:20] The Lord said, ‘Who will deceive Ahab, so he will attack Ramoth Gilead and die there?’ One said this and another that.
[1Kgs 22:21] Then a spirit stepped forward and stood before the Lord. He said, ‘I will deceive him.’
[1Kgs 22:22] The Lord asked him, ‘How?’ He replied, ‘I will go out and be a lying spirit in the mouths of all his prophets.’ The Lord said, ‘Deceive and overpower him. Go out and do as you have proposed.’
[1Kgs 22:23] So now, look, the Lord has placed a lying spirit in the mouths of all these prophets of yours, but the Lord has decreed disaster for you.”

¶[1Kgs 22:24] Zedekiah son of Kenaanah approached, hit Micaiah on the jaw, and said, “Which way did the Lord’s spirit go when he went from me to speak to you?”
[1Kgs 22:25] Micaiah replied, “Look, you will see in the day when you go into an inner room to hide.”
[1Kgs 22:26] Then the king of Israel said, “Take Micaiah and return him to Amon the city official and Joash the king’s son.
[1Kgs 22:27] Say, ‘This is what the king says, “Put this man in prison. Give him only a little bread and water until I safely return.”’”
[1Kgs 22:28] Micaiah said, “If you really do safely return, then the Lord has not spoken through me.” Then he added, “Take note, all you people.”

¶[1Kgs 22:29] The king of Israel and King Jehoshaphat of Judah attacked Ramoth Gilead.
[1Kgs 22:30] The king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, “I will disguise myself and then enter into the battle, but you wear your royal robes.” So the king of Israel disguised himself and then entered into the battle.
[1Kgs 22:31] Now the king of Syria had ordered his thirty-two chariot commanders, “Do not fight common soldiers or high-ranking officers; fight only the king of Israel.”
[1Kgs 22:32] When the chariot commanders saw Jehoshaphat, they said, “He must be the king of Israel.” So they turned and attacked him, but Jehoshaphat cried out.
[1Kgs 22:33] When the chariot commanders realized he was not the king of Israel, they turned away from him.
[1Kgs 22:34] Now an archer shot an arrow at random, and it struck the king of Israel between the plates of his armor. The king ordered his charioteer, “Turn around and take me from the battle line, because I’m wounded.”
[1Kgs 22:35] While the battle raged throughout the day, the king stood propped up in his chariot opposite the Syrians. He died in the evening; the blood from the wound ran down into the bottom of the chariot.
[1Kgs 22:36] As the sun was setting, a cry went through the camp, “Each one should return to his city and to his homeland.”

¶[1Kgs 22:37] So the king died and was taken to Samaria, where they buried him.
[1Kgs 22:38] They washed off the chariot at the pool of Samaria. Then the dogs licked his blood, while the the prostitutes bathed, in keeping with the Lord’s message that he had spoken.
[1Kgs 22:39] The rest of the events of Ahab’s reign, including a record of his accomplishments and how he built a luxurious palace and various cities, are recorded in the scroll called the Annals of the Kings of Israel.
[1Kgs 22:40] Ahab passed away. His son Ahaziah replaced him as king.

¶[1Kgs 22:41] In the fourth year of Ahab’s reign over Israel, Asa’s son Jehoshaphat became king over Judah.
[1Kgs 22:42] Jehoshaphat was thirty-five years old when he became king and he reigned for twenty-five years in Jerusalem. His mother was Azubah, the daughter of Shilhi.
[1Kgs 22:43] He followed in his father Asa’s footsteps and was careful to do what the Lord approved. (22:44) However, the high places were not eliminated; the people continued to offer sacrifices and burn incense on the high places.
[1Kgs 22:44] (22:45) Jehoshaphat was also at peace with the king of Israel.

¶[1Kgs 22:45] The rest of the events of Jehoshaphat’s reign, including his successes and military exploits, are recorded in the scroll called the Annals of the Kings of Judah.
[1Kgs 22:46] He removed from the land any male cultic prostitutes who had managed to survive the reign of his father Asa.
[1Kgs 22:47] There was no king in Edom at this time; a governor ruled.
[1Kgs 22:48] Jehoshaphat built a fleet of large merchant ships to travel to Ophir for gold, but they never made the voyage because they were shipwrecked in Ezion Geber.
[1Kgs 22:49] Then Ahaziah son of Ahab said to Jehoshaphat, “Let my sailors join yours in the fleet,” but Jehoshaphat refused.
[1Kgs 22:50] Jehoshaphat passed away and was buried with his ancestors in the city of his ancestor David. His son Jehoram replaced him as king.

## Ahaziah's reign in Israel
¶[1Kgs 22:51] In the seventeenth year of Jehoshaphat’s reign over Judah, Ahab’s son Ahaziah became king over Israel in Samaria. He ruled for two years over Israel.
[1Kgs 22:52] He did evil in the sight of the Lord and followed in the footsteps of his father and mother; like Jeroboam son of Nebat, he encouraged Israel to sin.
[1Kgs 22:53] He worshiped and bowed down to Baal, angering the Lord God of Israel just as his father had done.
