# Song of Songs 1

## Title: Solomon's Song of Songs
¶`Song 1:1` Solomon’s Most Excellent Love Song.

## The Shulamite's Longing for Her Beloved
¶`Song 1:2` Oh, how I wish you would kiss me passionately! For your lovemaking is more delightful than wine.
`Song 1:3` The fragrance of your colognes is delightful; your name is like the finest perfume. No wonder the young women adore you!
`Song 1:4` Draw me after you; let us hurry! May the king bring me into his bedroom chambers! We will rejoice and delight in you; we will praise your love more than wine. How rightly the young women adore you!

## The Shulamite's Insecurities and Praise
¶`Song 1:5` I am dark but lovely, O maidens of Jerusalem, dark like the tents of Qedar, lovely like the tent curtains of Salmah.
`Song 1:6` Do not stare at me because I am dark, for the sun has burned my skin. My brothers were angry with me; they made me the keeper of the vineyards. Alas, my own vineyard I could not keep!
`Song 1:7` Tell me, O you whom my heart loves, where do you pasture your sheep? Where do you rest your sheep during the midday heat? Tell me lest I wander around beside the flocks of your companions!

## The Beloved's Encouragement and Praise of the Shulamite
¶`Song 1:8` If you do not know, O most beautiful of women, simply follow the tracks of my flock, and pasture your little lambs beside the tents of the shepherds.
`Song 1:9` O my beloved, you are like a mare among Pharaoh’s stallions.
`Song 1:10` Your cheeks are beautiful with ornaments; your neck is lovely with strings of jewels.
`Song 1:11` We will make for you gold ornaments studded with silver.

## The Shulamite's Love and Fragrance
¶`Song 1:12` While the king was at his banqueting table, my nard gave forth its fragrance.
`Song 1:13` My beloved is like a fragrant pouch of myrrh spending the night between my breasts.
`Song 1:14` My beloved is like a cluster of henna blossoms in the vineyards of En Gedi.

## The Beloved Praises the Shulamite's Beauty
¶`Song 1:15` Oh, how beautiful you are, my beloved! Oh, how beautiful you are! Your eyes are like doves!
`Song 1:16` Oh, how handsome you are, my lover! Oh, how delightful you are! The lush foliage is our canopied bed;
`Song 1:17` the cedars are the beams of our bedroom chamber; the pines are the rafters of our bedroom.
