# Song of Songs 3

## The Shulamite's Dream of Searching for Her Beloved
¶[Song 3:1] All night long on my bed I longed for my lover. I longed for him but he never appeared.
[Song 3:2] “I will arise and look all around throughout the town, and throughout the streets and squares; I will search for my beloved.” I searched for him but I did not find him.
[Song 3:3] The night watchmen found me – the ones who guard the city walls. “Have you seen my beloved?”
[Song 3:4] Scarcely had I passed them by when I found my beloved! I held onto him tightly and would not let him go until I brought him to my mother’s house, to the bedroom chamber of the one who conceived me.

## The Shulamite's Request for Respect of Their Love
¶[Song 3:5] I admonish you, O maidens of Jerusalem, by the gazelles and by the young does of the open fields: “Do not awake or arouse love until it pleases!”

## Solomon's Procession for His Bride
¶[Song 3:6] Who is this coming up from the wilderness like a column of smoke, like a fragrant billow of myrrh and frankincense, every kind of fragrant powder of the traveling merchants?
[Song 3:7] Look! It is Solomon’s portable couch! It is surrounded by sixty warriors, some of Israel’s mightiest warriors.
[Song 3:8] All of them are skilled with a sword, well-trained in the art of warfare. Each has his sword at his side, to guard against the terrors of the night.
[Song 3:9] King Solomon made a sedan chair for himself of wood imported from Lebanon.
[Song 3:10] Its posts were made of silver; its back was made of gold. Its seat was upholstered with purple wool; its interior was inlaid with leather by the maidens of Jerusalem.
[Song 3:11] Come out, O maidens of Zion, and gaze upon King Solomon! He is wearing the crown with which his mother crowned him on his wedding day, on the most joyous day of his life!
