# Song of Songs 4

## The Beloved Praises the Shulamite's Beauty
¶[Song 4:1] Oh, you are beautiful, my darling! Oh, you are beautiful! Your eyes behind your veil are like doves. Your hair is like a flock of female goats descending from Mount Gilead.
[Song 4:2] Your teeth are like a flock of newly-shorn sheep coming up from the washing place; each of them has a twin, and not one of them is missing.
[Song 4:3] Your lips are like a scarlet thread; your mouth is lovely. Your forehead behind your veil is like a slice of pomegranate.
[Song 4:4] Your neck is like the tower of David built with courses of stones; one thousand shields are hung on it – all shields of valiant warriors.
[Song 4:5] Your two breasts are like two fawns, twins of the gazelle grazing among the lilies.
[Song 4:6] Until the dawn arrives and the shadows flee, I will go up to the mountain of myrrh, and to the hill of frankincense.
[Song 4:7] You are altogether beautiful, my darling! There is no blemish in you!

## The Invitation to Consummate Their Love
¶[Song 4:8] Come with me from Lebanon, my bride, come with me from Lebanon. Descend from the crest of Amana, from the top of Senir, the summit of Hermon, from the lions’ dens and the mountain haunts of the leopards.
[Song 4:9] You have stolen my heart, my sister, my bride! You have stolen my heart with one glance of your eyes, with one jewel of your necklace.
[Song 4:10] How delightful is your love, my sister, my bride! How much better is your love than wine; the fragrance of your perfume is better than any spice!
[Song 4:11] Your lips drip sweetness like the honeycomb, my bride, honey and milk are under your tongue. The fragrance of your garments is like the fragrance of Lebanon.
[Song 4:12] You are a locked garden, my sister, my bride; you are an enclosed spring, a sealed-up fountain.
[Song 4:13] Your shoots are a royal garden full of pomegranates with choice fruits: henna with nard,
[Song 4:14] nard and saffron; calamus and cinnamon with every kind of spice, myrrh and aloes with all the finest spices.
[Song 4:15] You are a garden spring, a well of fresh water flowing down from Lebanon.

## The Shulamite's Invitation and Consummation
¶[Song 4:16] Awake, O north wind; come, O south wind! Blow on my garden so that its fragrant spices may send out their sweet smell. May my beloved come into his garden and eat its delightful fruit!
