# Song of Songs 5

¶`Song 5:1` I have entered my garden, O my sister, my bride; I have gathered my myrrh with my balsam spice. I have eaten my honeycomb and my honey; I have drunk my wine and my milk! Eat, friends, and drink! Drink freely, O lovers!

## The Shulamite's Dream of Delay and Loss
¶`Song 5:2` I was asleep, but my mind was dreaming. Listen! My lover is knocking at the door! “Open for me, my sister, my darling, my dove, my flawless one! My head is drenched with dew, my hair with the dampness of the night.”
`Song 5:3` “I have already taken off my robe – must I put it on again? I have already washed my feet – must I soil them again?”
`Song 5:4` My lover thrust his hand through the hole, and my feelings were stirred for him.
`Song 5:5` I arose to open for my beloved; my hands dripped with myrrh – my fingers flowed with myrrh on the handles of the lock.
`Song 5:6` I opened for my beloved, but my lover had already turned and gone away. I fell into despair when he departed. I looked for him but did not find him; I called him but he did not answer me.
`Song 5:7` The watchmen found me as they made their rounds in the city. They beat me, they bruised me; they took away my cloak, those watchmen on the walls!
`Song 5:8` I admonish you, O maidens of Jerusalem – If you find my beloved, what will you tell him? Tell him that I am lovesick!

## The Shulamite Praises the Beloved's Attributes
¶`Song 5:9` Why is your beloved better than others, O most beautiful of women? Why is your beloved better than others, that you would admonish us in this manner?
`Song 5:10` My beloved is dazzling and ruddy; he stands out in comparison to all other men.
`Song 5:11` His head is like the purest gold. His hair is curly – black like a raven.
`Song 5:12` His eyes are like doves by streams of water, washed in milk, mounted like jewels.
`Song 5:13` His cheeks are like garden beds full of balsam trees yielding perfume. His lips are like lilies dripping with drops of myrrh.
`Song 5:14` His arms are like rods of gold set with chrysolite. His abdomen is like polished ivory inlaid with sapphires.
`Song 5:15` His legs are like pillars of marble set on bases of pure gold. His appearance is like Lebanon, choice as its cedars.
`Song 5:16` His mouth is very sweet; he is totally desirable. This is my beloved! This is my companion, O maidens of Jerusalem!
