# Deuteronomy 14

¶[Deut 14:1] You are children of the Lord your God. Do not cut yourselves or shave your forehead bald for the sake of the dead.
[Deut 14:2] For you are a people holy to the Lord your God. He has chosen you to be his people, prized above all others on the face of the earth.

## Dietary Laws
¶[Deut 14:3] You must not eat any forbidden thing.
[Deut 14:4] These are the animals you may eat: the ox, the sheep, the goat,
[Deut 14:5] the ibex, the gazelle, the deer, the wild goat, the antelope, the wild oryx, and the mountain sheep.
[Deut 14:6] You may eat any animal that has hooves divided into two parts and that chews the cud.
[Deut 14:7] However, you may not eat the following animals among those that chew the cud or those that have divided hooves: the camel, the hare, and the rock badger. (Although they chew the cud, they do not have divided hooves and are therefore ritually impure to you).
[Deut 14:8] Also the pig is ritually impure to you; though it has divided hooves, it does not chew the cud. You may not eat their meat or even touch their remains.

¶[Deut 14:9] These you may eat from among water creatures: anything with fins and scales you may eat,
[Deut 14:10] but whatever does not have fins and scales you may not eat; it is ritually impure to you.

¶[Deut 14:11] All ritually clean birds you may eat.
[Deut 14:12] These are the ones you may not eat: the eagle, the vulture, the black vulture,
[Deut 14:13] the kite, the black kite, the dayyah after its species,
[Deut 14:14] every raven after its species,
[Deut 14:15] the ostrich, the owl, the seagull, the falcon after its species,
[Deut 14:16] the little owl, the long-eared owl, the white owl,
[Deut 14:17] the jackdaw, the carrion vulture, the cormorant,
[Deut 14:18] the stork, the heron after its species, the hoopoe, the bat.
[Deut 14:19] And any swarming winged thing is impure to you – they may not be eaten.
[Deut 14:20] You may eat any clean winged creature.

¶[Deut 14:21] You may not eat any corpse, though you may give it to the resident foreigner who is living in your villages and he may eat it, or you may sell it to a foreigner. You are a people holy to the Lord your God. Do not boil a young goat in its mother’s milk.

## Tithes and Offerings
¶[Deut 14:22] You must be certain to tithe all the produce of your seed that comes from the field year after year.
[Deut 14:23] In the presence of the Lord your God you must eat from the tithe of your grain, your new wine, your olive oil, and the firstborn of your herds and flocks in the place he chooses to locate his name, so that you may learn to revere the Lord your God always.
[Deut 14:24] When he blesses you, if the place where he chooses to locate his name is distant,
[Deut 14:25] you may convert the tithe into money, secure the money, and travel to the place the Lord your God chooses for himself.
[Deut 14:26] Then you may spend the money however you wish for cattle, sheep, wine, beer, or whatever you desire. You and your household may eat there in the presence of the Lord your God and enjoy it.
[Deut 14:27] As for the Levites in your villages, you must not ignore them, for they have no allotment or inheritance along with you.

¶[Deut 14:28] At the end of every three years you must bring all the tithe of your produce, in that very year, and you must store it up in your villages.
[Deut 14:29] Then the Levites (because they have no allotment or inheritance with you), the resident foreigners, the orphans, and the widows of your villages may come and eat their fill so that the Lord your God may bless you in all the work you do.
