# Deuteronomy 20

## Laws on Warfare
¶[Deut 20:1] When you go to war against your enemies and see chariotry and troops who outnumber you, do not be afraid of them, for the Lord your God, who brought you up out of the land of Egypt, is with you.
[Deut 20:2] As you move forward for battle, the priest will approach and say to the soldiers,
[Deut 20:3] “Listen, Israel! Today you are moving forward to do battle with your enemies. Do not be fainthearted. Do not fear and tremble or be terrified because of them,
[Deut 20:4] for the Lord your God goes with you to fight on your behalf against your enemies to give you victory.”
[Deut 20:5] Moreover, the officers are to say to the troops, “Who among you has built a new house and not dedicated it? He may go home, lest he die in battle and someone else dedicate it.
[Deut 20:6] Or who among you has planted a vineyard and not benefited from it? He may go home, lest he die in battle and someone else benefit from it.
[Deut 20:7] Or who among you has become engaged to a woman but has not married her? He may go home, lest he die in battle and someone else marry her.”
[Deut 20:8] In addition, the officers are to say to the troops, “Who among you is afraid and fainthearted? He may go home so that he will not make his fellow soldier’s heart as fearful as his own.”
[Deut 20:9] Then, when the officers have finished speaking, they must appoint unit commanders to lead the troops.

¶[Deut 20:10] When you approach a city to wage war against it, offer it terms of peace.
[Deut 20:11] If it accepts your terms and submits to you, all the people found in it will become your slaves.
[Deut 20:12] If it does not accept terms of peace but makes war with you, then you are to lay siege to it.
[Deut 20:13] The Lord your God will deliver it over to you and you must kill every single male by the sword.
[Deut 20:14] However, the women, little children, cattle, and anything else in the city – all its plunder – you may take for yourselves as spoil. You may take from your enemies the plunder that the Lord your God has given you.
[Deut 20:15] This is how you are to deal with all those cities located far from you, those that do not belong to these nearby nations.
[Deut 20:16] As for the cities of these peoples that the Lord your God is going to give you as an inheritance, you must not allow a single living thing to survive.
[Deut 20:17] Instead you must utterly annihilate them – the Hittites, Amorites, Canaanites, Perizzites, Hivites, and Jebusites – just as the Lord your God has commanded you,
[Deut 20:18] so that they cannot teach you all the abhorrent ways they worship their gods, causing you to sin against the Lord your God.

¶[Deut 20:19] If you besiege a city for a long time while attempting to capture it, you must not chop down its trees, for you may eat fruit from them and should not cut them down. A tree in the field is not human that you should besiege it!
[Deut 20:20] However, you may chop down any tree you know is not suitable for food, and you may use it to build siege works against the city that is making war with you until that city falls.
