# Deuteronomy 24

¶[Deut 24:1] If a man marries a woman and she does not please him because he has found something indecent in her, then he may draw up a divorce document, give it to her, and evict her from his house.
[Deut 24:2] When she has left him she may go and become someone else’s wife.
[Deut 24:3] If the second husband rejects her and then divorces her, gives her the papers, and evicts her from his house, or if the second husband who married her dies,
[Deut 24:4] her first husband who divorced her is not permitted to remarry her after she has become ritually impure, for that is offensive to the Lord. You must not bring guilt on the land which the Lord your God is giving you as an inheritance.

¶[Deut 24:5] When a man is newly married, he need not go into the army nor be obligated in any way; he must be free to stay at home for a full year and bring joy to the wife he has married.

¶[Deut 24:6] One must not take either lower or upper millstones as security on a loan, for that is like taking a life itself as security.

¶[Deut 24:7] If a man is found kidnapping a person from among his fellow Israelites, and regards him as mere property and sells him, that kidnapper must die. In this way you will purge evil from among you.

¶[Deut 24:8] Be careful during an outbreak of leprosy to follow precisely all that the Levitical priests instruct you; as I have commanded them, so you should do.
[Deut 24:9] Remember what the Lord your God did to Miriam along the way after you left Egypt.

¶[Deut 24:10] When you make any kind of loan to your neighbor, you may not go into his house to claim what he is offering as security.
[Deut 24:11] You must stand outside and the person to whom you are making the loan will bring out to you what he is offering as security.
[Deut 24:12] If the person is poor you may not use what he gives you as security for a covering.
[Deut 24:13] You must by all means return to him at sunset the item he gave you as security so that he may sleep in his outer garment and bless you for it; it will be considered a just deed by the Lord your God.

¶[Deut 24:14] You must not oppress a lowly and poor servant, whether one from among your fellow Israelites or from the resident foreigners who are living in your land and villages.
[Deut 24:15] You must pay his wage that very day before the sun sets, for he is poor and his life depends on it. Otherwise he will cry out to the Lord against you, and you will be guilty of sin.

¶[Deut 24:16] Fathers must not be put to death for what their children do, nor children for what their fathers do; each must be put to death for his own sin.

¶[Deut 24:17] You must not pervert justice due a resident foreigner or an orphan, or take a widow’s garment as security for a loan.
[Deut 24:18] Remember that you were slaves in Egypt and that the Lord your God redeemed you from there; therefore I am commanding you to do all this.

¶[Deut 24:19] Whenever you reap your harvest in your field and leave some unraked grain there, you must not return to get it; it should go to the resident foreigner, orphan, and widow so that the Lord your God may bless all the work you do.
[Deut 24:20] When you beat your olive tree you must not repeat the procedure; the remaining olives belong to the resident foreigner, orphan, and widow.
[Deut 24:21] When you gather the grapes of your vineyard you must not do so a second time; they should go to the resident foreigner, orphan, and widow.
[Deut 24:22] Remember that you were slaves in the land of Egypt; therefore, I am commanding you to do all this.
