# Deuteronomy 27

## Altar on Mount Ebal
¶[Deut 27:1] Then Moses and the elders of Israel commanded the people: “Pay attention to all the commandments I am giving you today.
[Deut 27:2] When you cross the Jordan River to the land the Lord your God is giving you, you must erect great stones and cover them with plaster.
[Deut 27:3] Then you must inscribe on them all the words of this law when you cross over, so that you may enter the land the Lord your God is giving you, a land flowing with milk and honey just as the Lord, the God of your ancestors, said to you.
[Deut 27:4] So when you cross the Jordan you must erect on Mount Ebal these stones about which I am commanding you today, and you must cover them with plaster.
[Deut 27:5] Then you must build an altar there to the Lord your God, an altar of stones – do not use an iron tool on them.
[Deut 27:6] You must build the altar of the Lord your God with whole stones and offer burnt offerings on it to the Lord your God.
[Deut 27:7] Also you must offer fellowship offerings and eat them there, rejoicing before the Lord your God.
[Deut 27:8] You must inscribe on the stones all the words of this law, making them clear.”

## Curses for Disobedience
¶[Deut 27:9] Then Moses and the Levitical priests spoke to all Israel: “Be quiet and pay attention, Israel. Today you have become the people of the Lord your God.
[Deut 27:10] You must obey him and keep his commandments and statutes that I am giving you today.”

¶[Deut 27:11] Moreover, Moses commanded the people that day:
[Deut 27:12] “The following tribes must stand to bless the people on Mount Gerizim when you cross the Jordan: Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, Joseph, and Benjamin.
[Deut 27:13] And these other tribes must stand for the curse on Mount Ebal: Reuben, Gad, Asher, Zebulun, Dan, and Naphtali.
[Deut 27:14] “The Levites will call out to every Israelite with a loud voice:

¶[Deut 27:15] ‘Cursed is the one who makes a carved or metal image – something abhorrent to the Lord, the work of the craftsman – and sets it up in a secret place.’ Then all the people will say, ‘Amen!’

¶[Deut 27:16] ‘Cursed is the one who disrespects his father and mother.’ Then all the people will say, ‘Amen!’

¶[Deut 27:17] ‘Cursed is the one who moves his neighbor’s boundary marker.’ Then all the people will say, ‘Amen!’

¶[Deut 27:18] ‘Cursed is the one who misleads a blind person on the road.’ Then all the people will say, ‘Amen!’

¶[Deut 27:19] ‘Cursed is the one who perverts justice for the resident foreigner, the orphan, and the widow.’ Then all the people will say, ‘Amen!’

¶[Deut 27:20] ‘Cursed is the one who goes to bed with his father’s former wife, for he dishonors his father.’ Then all the people will say, ‘Amen!’

¶[Deut 27:21] ‘Cursed is the one who commits bestiality.’ Then all the people will say, ‘Amen!’

¶[Deut 27:22] ‘Cursed is the one who goes to bed with his sister, the daughter of either his father or mother.’ Then all the people will say, ‘Amen!’

¶[Deut 27:23] ‘Cursed is the one who goes to bed with his mother-in-law.’ Then all the people will say, ‘Amen!’

¶[Deut 27:24] ‘Cursed is the one who kills his neighbor in private.’ Then all the people will say, ‘Amen!’

¶[Deut 27:25] ‘Cursed is the one who takes a bribe to kill an innocent person.’ Then all the people will say, ‘Amen!’

¶[Deut 27:26] ‘Cursed is the one who refuses to keep the words of this law.’ Then all the people will say, ‘Amen!’
