# Deuteronomy 34

## The Death of Moses and Succession of Joshua
¶[Deut 34:1] Then Moses ascended from the rift valley plains of Moab to Mount Nebo, to the summit of Pisgah, which is opposite Jericho. The Lord showed him the whole land – Gilead to Dan,
[Deut 34:2] and all of Naphtali, the land of Ephraim and Manasseh, all the land of Judah as far as the distant sea,
[Deut 34:3] the Negev, and the plain of the valley of Jericho, the city of date palm trees, as far as Zoar.
[Deut 34:4] Then the Lord said to him, “This is the land I promised to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob when I said, ‘I will give it to your descendants.’ I have let you see it, but you will not cross over there.”
[Deut 34:5] So Moses, the servant of the Lord, died there in the land of Moab as the Lord had said.
[Deut 34:6] He buried him in the valley in the land of Moab near Beth Peor, but no one knows his exact burial place to this very day.
[Deut 34:7] Moses was 120 years old when he died, but his eye was not dull nor had his vitality departed.
[Deut 34:8] The Israelites mourned for Moses in the rift valley plains of Moab for thirty days; then the days of mourning for Moses ended.

¶[Deut 34:9] Now Joshua son of Nun was full of the spirit of wisdom, for Moses had placed his hands on him; and the Israelites listened to him and did just what the Lord had commanded Moses.
[Deut 34:10] No prophet ever again arose in Israel like Moses, who knew the Lord face to face.
[Deut 34:11] He did all the signs and wonders the Lord had sent him to do in the land of Egypt, to Pharaoh, all his servants, and the whole land,
[Deut 34:12] and he displayed great power and awesome might in view of all Israel.
