# James 1

## Greetings by James
¶`Jas 1:1` From James, a slave of God and the Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes dispersed abroad. Greetings!

## Joy in Trials
¶`Jas 1:2` My brothers and sisters, consider it nothing but joy when you fall into all sorts of trials,
`Jas 1:3` because you know that the testing of your faith produces endurance.
`Jas 1:4` And let endurance have its perfect effect, so that you will be perfect and complete, not deficient in anything.

## Seeking Wisdom
¶`Jas 1:5` But if anyone is deficient in wisdom, he should ask God, who gives to all generously and without reprimand, and it will be given to him.
`Jas 1:6` But he must ask in faith without doubting, for the one who doubts is like a wave of the sea, blown and tossed around by the wind.
`Jas 1:7` For that person must not suppose that he will receive anything from the Lord,
`Jas 1:8` since he is a double-minded individual, unstable in all his ways.

## Humility in Riches and Poverty
¶`Jas 1:9` Now the believer of humble means should take pride in his high position.
`Jas 1:10` But the rich person’s pride should be in his humiliation, because he will pass away like a wildflower in the meadow.
`Jas 1:11` For the sun rises with its heat and dries up the meadow; the petal of the flower falls off and its beauty is lost forever. So also the rich person in the midst of his pursuits will wither away.

## Perseverance in Temptations
¶`Jas 1:12` Happy is the one who endures testing, because when he has proven to be genuine, he will receive the crown of life that God promised to those who love him.
`Jas 1:13` Let no one say when he is tempted, “I am tempted by God,” for God cannot be tempted by evil, and he himself tempts no one.
`Jas 1:14` But each one is tempted when he is lured and enticed by his own desires.
`Jas 1:15` Then when desire conceives, it gives birth to sin, and when sin is full grown, it gives birth to death.

## The Source of Good Gifts
¶`Jas 1:16` Do not be led astray, my dear brothers and sisters.
`Jas 1:17` All generous giving and every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of lights, with whom there is no variation or the slightest hint of change.
`Jas 1:18` By his sovereign plan he gave us birth through the message of truth, that we would be a kind of firstfruits of all he created.

## Swift to Hear, Slow to Speak
¶`Jas 1:19` Understand this, my dear brothers and sisters! Let every person be quick to listen, slow to speak, slow to anger.
`Jas 1:20` For human anger does not accomplish God’s righteousness.

## Putting Away Filthiness
¶`Jas 1:21` So put away all filth and evil excess and humbly welcome the message implanted within you, which is able to save your souls.

## Hearing and Doing the Word
¶`Jas 1:22` But be sure you live out the message and do not merely listen to it and so deceive yourselves.
`Jas 1:23` For if someone merely listens to the message and does not live it out, he is like someone who gazes at his own face in a mirror.
`Jas 1:24` For he gazes at himself and then goes out and immediately forgets what sort of person he was.
`Jas 1:25` But the one who peers into the perfect law of liberty and fixes his attention there, and does not become a forgetful listener but one who lives it out – he will be blessed in what he does.

## True Religion
¶`Jas 1:26` If someone thinks he is religious yet does not bridle his tongue, and so deceives his heart, his religion is futile.
`Jas 1:27` Pure and undefiled religion before God the Father is this: to care for orphans and widows in their adversity and to keep oneself unstained by the world.
