# James 3

## Teaching and Accountability
¶`Jas 3:1` Not many of you should become teachers, my brothers and sisters, because you know that we will be judged more strictly.
`Jas 3:2` For we all stumble in many ways. If someone does not stumble in what he says, he is a perfect individual, able to control the entire body as well.

## The Power of the Tongue
¶`Jas 3:3` And if we put bits into the mouths of horses to get them to obey us, then we guide their entire bodies.
`Jas 3:4` Look at ships too: Though they are so large and driven by harsh winds, they are steered by a tiny rudder wherever the pilot’s inclination directs.
`Jas 3:5` So too the tongue is a small part of the body, yet it has great pretensions. Think how small a flame sets a huge forest ablaze.
`Jas 3:6` And the tongue is a fire! The tongue represents the world of wrongdoing among the parts of our bodies. It pollutes the entire body and sets fire to the course of human existence – and is set on fire by hell.

## Taming the Tongue
¶`Jas 3:7` For every kind of animal, bird, reptile, and sea creature is subdued and has been subdued by humankind.
`Jas 3:8` But no human being can subdue the tongue; it is a restless evil, full of deadly poison.
`Jas 3:9` With it we bless the Lord and Father, and with it we curse people made in God’s image.
`Jas 3:10` From the same mouth come blessing and cursing. These things should not be so, my brothers and sisters.
`Jas 3:11` A spring does not pour out fresh water and bitter water from the same opening, does it?
`Jas 3:12` Can a fig tree produce olives, my brothers and sisters, or a vine produce figs? Neither can a salt water spring produce fresh water.

## True Wisdom
¶`Jas 3:13` Who is wise and understanding among you? By his good conduct he should show his works done in the gentleness that wisdom brings.
`Jas 3:14` But if you have bitter jealousy and selfishness in your hearts, do not boast and tell lies against the truth.
`Jas 3:15` Such wisdom does not come from above but is earthly, natural, demonic.
`Jas 3:16` For where there is jealousy and selfishness, there is disorder and every evil practice.
`Jas 3:17` But the wisdom from above is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, accommodating, full of mercy and good fruit, impartial, and not hypocritical.
`Jas 3:18` And the fruit that consists of righteousness is planted in peace among those who make peace.
