# James 4

## Causes of Quarrels and Conflicts
¶`Jas 4:1` Where do the conflicts and where do the quarrels among you come from? Is it not from this, from your passions that battle inside you?
`Jas 4:2` You desire and you do not have; you murder and envy and you cannot obtain; you quarrel and fight. You do not have because you do not ask;
`Jas 4:3` you ask and do not receive because you ask wrongly, so you can spend it on your passions.

## Adultery, Enmity, and Friendship with the World
¶`Jas 4:4` Adulterers, do you not know that friendship with the world means hostility toward God? So whoever decides to be the world’s friend makes himself God’s enemy.
`Jas 4:5` Or do you think the scripture means nothing when it says, “The spirit that God caused to live within us has an envious yearning”?

## God's Grace and Humility
¶`Jas 4:6` But he gives greater grace. Therefore it says, “God opposes the proud, but he gives grace to the humble.”

## Drawing Near to God
¶`Jas 4:7` So submit to God. But resist the devil and he will flee from you.
`Jas 4:8` Draw near to God and he will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners, and make your hearts pure, you double-minded.
`Jas 4:9` Grieve, mourn, and weep. Turn your laughter into mourning and your joy into despair.
`Jas 4:10` Humble yourselves before the Lord and he will exalt you.

## Judging Others and the Law
¶`Jas 4:11` Do not speak against one another, brothers and sisters. He who speaks against a fellow believer or judges a fellow believer speaks against the law and judges the law. But if you judge the law, you are not a doer of the law but its judge.
`Jas 4:12` But there is only one who is lawgiver and judge – the one who is able to save and destroy. On the other hand, who are you to judge your neighbor?

## The Uncertainty of Life
¶`Jas 4:13` Come now, you who say, “Today or tomorrow we will go into this or that town and spend a year there and do business and make a profit.”
`Jas 4:14` You do not know about tomorrow. What is your life like? For you are a puff of smoke that appears for a short time and then vanishes.
`Jas 4:15` You ought to say instead, “If the Lord is willing, then we will live and do this or that.”

## Boasting and Pride
¶`Jas 4:16` But as it is, you boast about your arrogant plans. All such boasting is evil.

## Doing Good
¶`Jas 4:17` So whoever knows what is good to do and does not do it is guilty of sin.
