# Joel 3

## The gathering of the nations
¶[Joel 3:1] (4:1) For look! In those days and at that time I will return the exiles to Judah and Jerusalem.
[Joel 3:2] Then I will gather all the nations, and bring them down to the valley of Jehoshaphat. I will enter into judgment against them there concerning my people Israel who are my inheritance, whom they scattered among the nations. They partitioned my land,
[Joel 3:3] and they cast lots for my people. They traded a boy for a prostitute; they sold a little girl for wine so they could drink.

## God's charges against the nations
¶[Joel 3:4] Why are you doing these things to me, Tyre and Sidon? Are you trying to get even with me, land of Philistia? If you are, I will very quickly repay you for what you have done!
[Joel 3:5] For you took my silver and my gold and brought my precious valuables to your own palaces.
[Joel 3:6] You sold Judeans and Jerusalemites to the Greeks, removing them far from their own country.

## The retribution upon the nations
¶[Joel 3:7] Look! I am rousing them from that place to which you sold them. I will repay you for what you have done!
[Joel 3:8] I will sell your sons and daughters to the people of Judah. They will sell them to the Sabeans, a nation far away. Indeed, the Lord has spoken!

## The call to war
¶[Joel 3:9] Proclaim this among the nations: “Prepare for a holy war! Call out the warriors! Let all these fighting men approach and attack!
[Joel 3:10] Beat your plowshares into swords, and your pruning hooks into spears! Let the weak say, ‘I too am a warrior!’
[Joel 3:11] Lend your aid and come, all you surrounding nations, and gather yourselves to that place.” Bring down, O Lord, your warriors!

## The Day of the Lord and judgment
¶[Joel 3:12] Let the nations be roused and let them go up to the valley of Jehoshaphat, for there I will sit in judgment on all the surrounding nations.
[Joel 3:13] Rush forth with the sickle, for the harvest is ripe! Come, stomp the grapes, for the winepress is full! The vats overflow. Indeed, their evil is great!

¶[Joel 3:14] Crowds, great crowds are in the valley of decision, for the day of the Lord is near in the valley of decision!

## The Lord's intervention
¶[Joel 3:15] The sun and moon are darkened; the stars withhold their brightness.
[Joel 3:16] The Lord roars from Zion; from Jerusalem his voice bellows out. The heavens and the earth shake. But the Lord is a refuge for his people; he is a stronghold for the citizens of Israel.

## God's dwelling in Zion
¶[Joel 3:17] You will be convinced that I the Lord am your God, dwelling on Zion, my holy mountain. Jerusalem will be holy – conquering armies will no longer pass through it.

## The prosperity and security of God's people
¶[Joel 3:18] On that day the mountains will drip with sweet wine, and the hills will flow with milk. All the dry stream beds of Judah will flow with water. A spring will flow out from the temple of the Lord, watering the Valley of Acacia Trees.

## Judgement on Israel's enemies
¶[Joel 3:19] Egypt will be desolate and Edom will be a desolate wilderness, because of the violence they did to the people of Judah, in whose land they shed innocent blood.

## The everlasting habitation in Jerusalem
¶[Joel 3:20] But Judah will reside securely forever, and Jerusalem will be secure from one generation to the next.
[Joel 3:21] I will avenge their blood which I had not previously acquitted. It is the Lord who dwells in Zion!
