# Zephaniah 3

## The Wickedness of Jerusalem
¶[Zeph 3:1] Beware to the filthy, stained city; the city filled with oppressors!
[Zeph 3:2] She is disobedient; she has refused correction. She does not trust the Lord; she has not sought the advice of her God.
[Zeph 3:3] Her princes are as fierce as roaring lions; her rulers are as hungry as wolves in the desert, who completely devour their prey by morning.
[Zeph 3:4] Her prophets are proud; they are deceitful men. Her priests have defiled what is holy; they have broken God’s laws.
[Zeph 3:5] The just Lord resides within her; he commits no unjust acts. Every morning he reveals his justice. At dawn he appears without fail. Yet the unjust know no shame.
[Zeph 3:6] “I destroyed nations; their walled cities are in ruins. I turned their streets into ruins; no one passes through them. Their cities are desolate; no one lives there.
[Zeph 3:7] I thought, ‘Certainly you will respect me! Now you will accept correction!’ If she had done so, her home would not be destroyed by all the punishments I have threatened. But they eagerly sinned in everything they did.

## The Gathering and Judgment
¶[Zeph 3:8] Therefore you must wait patiently for me,” says the Lord, “for the day when I attack and take plunder. I have decided to gather nations together and assemble kingdoms, so I can pour out my fury on them – all my raging anger. For the whole earth will be consumed by my fiery anger.

## The restored communication
¶[Zeph 3:9] Know for sure that I will then enable the nations to give me acceptable praise. All of them will invoke the Lord’s name when they pray, and will worship him in unison.

## The humbled and devoted remnant
¶[Zeph 3:10] From beyond the rivers of Ethiopia, those who pray to me, my dispersed people, will bring me tribute.
[Zeph 3:11] In that day you will not be ashamed of all your rebelliousness against me, for then I will remove from your midst those who proudly boast, and you will never again be arrogant on my holy hill.
[Zeph 3:12] I will leave in your midst a humble and meek group of people, and they will find safety in the Lord’s presence.

## The righteous and faithful people
¶[Zeph 3:13] The Israelites who remain will not act deceitfully. They will not lie, and a deceitful tongue will not be found in their mouths. Indeed, they will graze peacefully like sheep and lie down; no one will terrify them.”

## Joyful singing
¶[Zeph 3:14] Shout for joy, Daughter Zion! Shout out, Israel! Be happy and boast with all your heart, Daughter Jerusalem!

## The abiding presence of the Lord
¶[Zeph 3:15] The Lord has removed the judgment against you; he has turned back your enemy. Israel’s king, the Lord, is in your midst! You no longer need to fear disaster.

## Fearlessness and strength
¶[Zeph 3:16] On that day they will say to Jerusalem, “Don’t be afraid, Zion! Your hands must not be paralyzed from panic!

## The Lord's delight and love
¶[Zeph 3:17] The Lord your God is in your midst; he is a warrior who can deliver. He takes great delight in you; he renews you by his love; he shouts for joy over you.”

## The lifting of sorrow
¶[Zeph 3:18] “As for those who grieve because they cannot attend the festivals – I took them away from you; they became tribute and were a source of shame to you.

## The gathering of the dispersed
¶[Zeph 3:19] Look, at that time I will deal with those who mistreated you. I will rescue the lame sheep and gather together the scattered sheep. I will take away their humiliation and make the whole earth admire and respect them.

## The exaltation of Israel
¶[Zeph 3:20] At that time I will lead you – at the time I gather you together. Be sure of this! I will make all the nations of the earth respect and admire you when you see me restore you,” says the Lord.
