# Jeremiah 18

## The Potter's House vision
¶[Jer 18:1] The Lord said to Jeremiah:
[Jer 18:2] “Go down at once to the potter’s house. I will speak to you further there.”
[Jer 18:3] So I went down to the potter’s house and found him working at his wheel.
[Jer 18:4] Now and then there would be something wrong with the pot he was molding from the clay with his hands. So he would rework the clay into another kind of pot as he saw fit.

¶[Jer 18:5] Then the Lord’s message came to me,
[Jer 18:6] “I, the Lord, say: ‘O nation of Israel, can I not deal with you as this potter deals with the clay? In my hands, you, O nation of Israel, are just like the clay in this potter’s hand.’
[Jer 18:7] There are times, Jeremiah, when I threaten to uproot, tear down, and destroy a nation or kingdom.
[Jer 18:8] But if that nation I threatened stops doing wrong, I will cancel the destruction I intended to do to it.
[Jer 18:9] And there are times when I promise to build up and establish a nation or kingdom.
[Jer 18:10] But if that nation does what displeases me and does not obey me, then I will cancel the good I promised to do to it.
[Jer 18:11] So now, tell the people of Judah and the citizens of Jerusalem this: The Lord says, ‘I am preparing to bring disaster on you! I am making plans to punish you. So, every one of you, stop the evil things you have been doing. Correct the way you have been living and do what is right.’
[Jer 18:12] But they just keep saying, ‘We do not care what you say! We will do whatever we want to do! We will continue to behave wickedly and stubbornly!’”

¶[Jer 18:13] Therefore, the Lord says, “Ask the people of other nations whether they have heard of anything like this. Israel should have been like a virgin. But she has done something utterly revolting!
[Jer 18:14] Does the snow ever completely vanish from the rocky slopes of Lebanon? Do the cool waters from those distant mountains ever cease to flow?
[Jer 18:15] Yet my people have forgotten me and offered sacrifices to worthless idols! This makes them stumble along in the way they live and leave the old reliable path of their fathers. They have left them to walk in bypaths, in roads that are not smooth and level.
[Jer 18:16] So their land will become an object of horror. People will forever hiss out their scorn over it. All who pass that way will be filled with horror and will shake their heads in derision.
[Jer 18:17] I will scatter them before their enemies like dust blowing in front of a burning east wind. I will turn my back on them and not look favorably on them when disaster strikes them.”

¶[Jer 18:18] Then some people said, “Come on! Let us consider how to deal with Jeremiah! There will still be priests to instruct us, wise men to give us advice, and prophets to declare God’s word. Come on! Let’s bring charges against him and get rid of him! Then we will not need to pay attention to anything he says.”

¶[Jer 18:19] Then I said, “Lord, pay attention to me. Listen to what my enemies are saying.
[Jer 18:20] Should good be paid back with evil? Yet they are virtually digging a pit to kill me. Just remember how I stood before you pleading on their behalf to keep you from venting your anger on them.
[Jer 18:21] So let their children die of starvation. Let them be cut down by the sword. Let their wives lose their husbands and children. Let the older men die of disease and the younger men die by the sword in battle.
[Jer 18:22] Let cries of terror be heard in their houses when you send bands of raiders unexpectedly to plunder them. For they have virtually dug a pit to capture me and have hidden traps for me to step into.
[Jer 18:23] But you, Lord, know all their plots to kill me. Do not pardon their crimes! Do not ignore their sins as though you had erased them! Let them be brought down in defeat before you! Deal with them while you are still angry!
