# Jeremiah 33

## The New Covenant
¶[Jer 33:1] The Lord’s message came to Jeremiah a second time while he was still confined in the courtyard of the guardhouse.
[Jer 33:2] “I, the Lord, do these things. I, the Lord, form the plan to bring them about. I am known as the Lord. I say to you,
[Jer 33:3] ‘Call on me in prayer and I will answer you. I will show you great and mysterious things which you still do not know about.’
[Jer 33:4] For I, the Lord God of Israel, have something more to say about the houses in this city and the royal buildings of Judah which have been torn down for defenses against the siege ramps and military incursions of the Babylonians:
[Jer 33:5] ‘The defenders of the city will go out and fight with the Babylonians. But they will only fill those houses and buildings with the dead bodies of the people that I will kill in my anger and my wrath. That will happen because I have decided to turn my back on this city on account of the wicked things they have done.
[Jer 33:6] But I will most surely heal the wounds of this city and restore it and its people to health. I will show them abundant peace and security.
[Jer 33:7] I will restore Judah and Israel and will rebuild them as they were in days of old.
[Jer 33:8] I will purify them from all the sin that they committed against me. I will forgive all their sins which they committed in rebelling against me.
[Jer 33:9] All the nations will hear about all the good things which I will do to them. This city will bring me fame, honor, and praise before them for the joy that I bring it. The nations will tremble in awe at all the peace and prosperity that I will provide for it.’

¶[Jer 33:10] “I, the Lord, say: ‘You and your people are saying about this place, “It lies in ruins. There are no people or animals in it.” That is true. The towns of Judah and the streets of Jerusalem will soon be desolate, uninhabited either by people or by animals. But happy sounds will again be heard in these places.
[Jer 33:11] Once again there will be sounds of joy and gladness and the glad celebrations of brides and grooms. Once again people will bring their thank offerings to the temple of the Lord and will say, “Give thanks to the Lord of Heaven’s Armies. For the Lord is good and his unfailing love lasts forever.” For I, the Lord, affirm that I will restore the land to what it was in days of old.’

¶[Jer 33:12] “I, the Lord of Heaven’s Armies, say: ‘This place will indeed lie in ruins. There will be no people or animals in it. But there will again be in it and in its towns sheepfolds where shepherds can rest their sheep.
[Jer 33:13] I, the Lord, say that shepherds will once again count their sheep as they pass into the fold. They will do this in all the towns in the hill country, the foothills, the Negev , the territory of Benjamin, the villages surrounding Jerusalem, and the towns of Judah.’

¶[Jer 33:14] “I, the Lord, affirm: ‘The time will certainly come when I will fulfill my gracious promise concerning the nations of Israel and Judah.
[Jer 33:15] In those days and at that time I will raise up for them a righteous descendant of David. “‘He will do what is just and right in the land.
[Jer 33:16] Under his rule Judah will enjoy safety and Jerusalem will live in security. At that time Jerusalem will be called “The Lord has provided us with justice.”
[Jer 33:17] For I, the Lord, promise: “David will never lack a successor to occupy the throne over the nation of Israel.
[Jer 33:18] Nor will the Levitical priests ever lack someone to stand before me and continually offer up burnt offerings, sacrifice cereal offerings, and offer the other sacrifices.”’”

¶[Jer 33:19] The Lord’s message came to Jeremiah another time.
[Jer 33:20] “I, the Lord, make the following promise: ‘I have made a covenant with the day and with the night that they will always come at their proper times. Only if you people could break that covenant
[Jer 33:21] could my covenant with my servant David and my covenant with the Levites ever be broken. So David will by all means always have a descendant to occupy his throne as king and the Levites will by all means always have priests who will minister before me.
[Jer 33:22] I will make the children who follow one another in the line of my servant David very numerous. I will also make the Levites who minister before me very numerous. I will make them all as numerous as the stars in the sky and as the sands which are on the seashore.’”

¶[Jer 33:23] The Lord’s message came to Jeremiah another time.
[Jer 33:24] “You have surely noticed what these people are saying, haven’t you? They are saying, ‘The Lord has rejected the two families of Israel and Judah that he chose.’ So they have little regard that my people will ever again be a nation.
[Jer 33:25] But I, the Lord, make the following promise: I have made a covenant governing the coming of day and night. I have established the fixed laws governing heaven and earth.
[Jer 33:26] Just as surely as I have done this, so surely will I never reject the descendants of Jacob. Nor will I ever refuse to choose one of my servant David’s descendants to rule over the descendants of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Indeed, I will restore them and show mercy to them.”
