# Titus 2

## Instructions for Different Groups
¶[Titus 2:1] But as for you, communicate the behavior that goes with sound teaching.
[Titus 2:2] Older men are to be temperate, dignified, self-controlled, sound in faith, in love, and in endurance.
[Titus 2:3] Older women likewise are to exhibit behavior fitting for those who are holy, not slandering, not slaves to excessive drinking, but teaching what is good.
[Titus 2:4] In this way they will train the younger women to love their husbands, to love their children,
[Titus 2:5] to be self-controlled, pure, fulfilling their duties at home, kind, being subject to their own husbands, so that the message of God may not be discredited.
[Titus 2:6] Encourage younger men likewise to be self-controlled,

## The Role of Titus
¶[Titus 2:7] showing yourself to be an example of good works in every way. In your teaching show integrity, dignity,
[Titus 2:8] and a sound message that cannot be criticized, so that any opponent will be at a loss, because he has nothing evil to say about us.

## Instructions for Slaves
¶[Titus 2:9] Slaves are to be subject to their own masters in everything, to do what is wanted and not talk back,
[Titus 2:10] not pilfering, but showing all good faith, in order to bring credit to the teaching of God our Savior in everything.

## Saving Grace
¶[Titus 2:11] For the grace of God has appeared, bringing salvation to all people.

## Instructing Grace
¶[Titus 2:12] It trains us to reject godless ways and worldly desires and to live self-controlled, upright, and godly lives in the present age,
[Titus 2:13] as we wait for the happy fulfillment of our hope in the glorious appearing of our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ.

## Redeeming Grace
¶[Titus 2:14] He gave himself for us to set us free from every kind of lawlessness and to purify for himself a people who are truly his, who are eager to do good.

## Authoritative Teaching
¶[Titus 2:15] So communicate these things with the sort of exhortation or rebuke that carries full authority. Don’t let anyone look down on you.
