# 1 Corinthians 5

## Expelling the Immoral Brother
¶[1Cor 5:1] It is actually reported that sexual immorality exists among you, the kind of immorality that is not permitted even among the Gentiles, so that someone is cohabiting with his father’s wife.
[1Cor 5:2] And you are proud! Shouldn’t you have been deeply sorrowful instead and removed the one who did this from among you?
[1Cor 5:3] For even though I am absent physically, I am present in spirit. And I have already judged the one who did this, just as though I were present.
[1Cor 5:4] When you gather together in the name of our Lord Jesus, and I am with you in spirit, along with the power of our Lord Jesus,
[1Cor 5:5] hand this man over to Satan for the destruction of the flesh, so that his spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord.
[1Cor 5:6] Your boasting is not good. Don’t you know that a little yeast affects the whole batch of dough?
[1Cor 5:7] Clean out the old yeast so that you may be a new batch of dough – you are, in fact, without yeast. For Christ, our Passover lamb, has been sacrificed.
[1Cor 5:8] So then, let us celebrate the festival, not with the old yeast, the yeast of vice and evil, but with the bread without yeast, the bread of sincerity and truth.

¶[1Cor 5:9] I wrote you in my letter not to associate with sexually immoral people.
[1Cor 5:10] In no way did I mean the immoral people of this world, or the greedy and swindlers and idolaters, since you would then have to go out of the world.
[1Cor 5:11] But now I am writing to you not to associate with anyone who calls himself a Christian who is sexually immoral, or greedy, or an idolater, or verbally abusive, or a drunkard, or a swindler. Do not even eat with such a person.
[1Cor 5:12] For what do I have to do with judging those outside? Are you not to judge those inside?
[1Cor 5:13] But God will judge those outside. Remove the evil person from among you.
