# 1 Corinthians 10

## Learning from Israel's Failures
¶[1Cor 10:1] For I do not want you to be unaware, brothers and sisters, that our fathers were all under the cloud and all passed through the sea,
[1Cor 10:2] and all were baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea,
[1Cor 10:3] and all ate the same spiritual food,
[1Cor 10:4] and all drank the same spiritual drink. For they were all drinking from the spiritual rock that followed them, and the rock was Christ.
[1Cor 10:5] But God was not pleased with most of them, for they were cut down in the wilderness.
[1Cor 10:6] These things happened as examples for us, so that we will not crave evil things as they did.
[1Cor 10:7] So do not be idolaters, as some of them were. As it is written, “The people sat down to eat and drink and rose up to play.”
[1Cor 10:8] And let us not be immoral, as some of them were, and twenty-three thousand died in a single day.
[1Cor 10:9] And let us not put Christ to the test, as some of them did, and were destroyed by snakes.
[1Cor 10:10] And do not complain, as some of them did, and were killed by the destroying angel.
[1Cor 10:11] These things happened to them as examples and were written for our instruction, on whom the ends of the ages have come.
[1Cor 10:12] So let the one who thinks he is standing be careful that he does not fall.
[1Cor 10:13] No trial has overtaken you that is not faced by others. And God is faithful: He will not let you be tried beyond what you are able to bear, but with the trial will also provide a way out so that you may be able to endure it.

## Participating in Idol Feasts
¶[1Cor 10:14] So then, my dear friends, flee from idolatry.
[1Cor 10:15] I am speaking to thoughtful people. Consider what I say.
[1Cor 10:16] Is not the cup of blessing that we bless a sharing in the blood of Christ? Is not the bread that we break a sharing in the body of Christ?
[1Cor 10:17] Because there is one bread, we who are many are one body, for we all share the one bread.
[1Cor 10:18] Look at the people of Israel. Are not those who eat the sacrifices partners in the altar?
[1Cor 10:19] Am I saying that idols or food sacrificed to them amount to anything?
[1Cor 10:20] No, I mean that what the pagans sacrifice is to demons and not to God. I do not want you to be partners with demons.
[1Cor 10:21] You cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons. You cannot take part in the table of the Lord and the table of demons.
[1Cor 10:22] Or are we trying to provoke the Lord to jealousy? Are we really stronger than he is?

## Seeking the Good of Others
¶[1Cor 10:23] “Everything is lawful,” but not everything is beneficial. “Everything is lawful,” but not everything builds others up.
[1Cor 10:24] Do not seek your own good, but the good of the other person.
[1Cor 10:25] Eat anything that is sold in the marketplace without questions of conscience,
[1Cor 10:26] for the earth and its abundance are the Lord’s.
[1Cor 10:27] If an unbeliever invites you to dinner and you want to go, eat whatever is served without asking questions of conscience.
[1Cor 10:28] But if someone says to you, “This is from a sacrifice,” do not eat, because of the one who told you and because of conscience –
[1Cor 10:29] I do not mean yours but the other person’s. For why is my freedom being judged by another’s conscience?
[1Cor 10:30] If I partake with thankfulness, why am I blamed for the food that I give thanks for?
[1Cor 10:31] So whether you eat or drink, or whatever you do, do everything for the glory of God.
[1Cor 10:32] Do not give offense to Jews or Greeks or to the church of God,
[1Cor 10:33] just as I also try to please everyone in all things. I do not seek my own benefit, but the benefit of many, so that they may be saved.
