# 1 Corinthians 12

## The Purpose and Diversity of Spiritual Gifts
¶[1Cor 12:1] With regard to spiritual gifts, brothers and sisters, I do not want you to be uninformed.
[1Cor 12:2] You know that when you were pagans you were often led astray by speechless idols, however you were led.
[1Cor 12:3] So I want you to understand that no one speaking by the Spirit of God says, “Jesus is cursed,” and no one can say, “Jesus is Lord,” except by the Holy Spirit.

¶[1Cor 12:4] Now there are different gifts, but the same Spirit.
[1Cor 12:5] And there are different ministries, but the same Lord.
[1Cor 12:6] And there are different results, but the same God who produces all of them in everyone.
[1Cor 12:7] To each person the manifestation of the Spirit is given for the benefit of all.
[1Cor 12:8] For one person is given through the Spirit the message of wisdom, and another the message of knowledge according to the same Spirit,
[1Cor 12:9] to another faith by the same Spirit, and to another gifts of healing by the one Spirit,
[1Cor 12:10] to another performance of miracles, to another prophecy, and to another discernment of spirits, to another different kinds of tongues, and to another the interpretation of tongues.
[1Cor 12:11] It is one and the same Spirit, distributing as he decides to each person, who produces all these things.

## The Body of Christ and Unity
¶[1Cor 12:12] For just as the body is one and yet has many members, and all the members of the body – though many – are one body, so too is Christ.
[1Cor 12:13] For in one Spirit we were all baptized into one body. Whether Jews or Greeks or slaves or free, we were all made to drink of the one Spirit.
[1Cor 12:14] For in fact the body is not a single member, but many.
[1Cor 12:15] If the foot says, “Since I am not a hand, I am not part of the body,” it does not lose its membership in the body because of that.
[1Cor 12:16] And if the ear says, “Since I am not an eye, I am not part of the body,” it does not lose its membership in the body because of that.
[1Cor 12:17] If the whole body were an eye, what part would do the hearing? If the whole were an ear, what part would exercise the sense of smell?
[1Cor 12:18] But as a matter of fact, God has placed each of the members in the body just as he decided.
[1Cor 12:19] If they were all the same member, where would the body be?
[1Cor 12:20] So now there are many members, but one body.
[1Cor 12:21] The eye cannot say to the hand, “I do not need you,” nor in turn can the head say to the foot, “I do not need you.”
[1Cor 12:22] On the contrary, those members that seem to be weaker are essential,
[1Cor 12:23] and those members we consider less honorable we clothe with greater honor, and our unpresentable members are clothed with dignity,
[1Cor 12:24] but our presentable members do not need this. Instead, God has blended together the body, giving greater honor to the lesser member,
[1Cor 12:25] so that there may be no division in the body, but the members may have mutual concern for one another.
[1Cor 12:26] If one member suffers, everyone suffers with it. If a member is honored, all rejoice with it.
[1Cor 12:27] Now you are Christ’s body, and each of you is a member of it.
[1Cor 12:28] And God has placed in the church first apostles, second prophets, third teachers, then miracles, gifts of healing, helps, gifts of leadership, different kinds of tongues.
[1Cor 12:29] Not all are apostles, are they? Not all are prophets, are they? Not all are teachers, are they? Not all perform miracles, do they?
[1Cor 12:30] Not all have gifts of healing, do they? Not all speak in tongues, do they? Not all interpret, do they?
[1Cor 12:31] But you should be eager for the greater gifts. And now I will show you a way that is beyond comparison.
