# 1 Corinthians 15

## The Gospel and the Resurrection
¶[1Cor 15:1] Now I want to make clear for you, brothers and sisters, the gospel that I preached to you, that you received and on which you stand,
[1Cor 15:2] and by which you are being saved, if you hold firmly to the message I preached to you – unless you believed in vain.
[1Cor 15:3] For I passed on to you as of first importance what I also received – that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures,
[1Cor 15:4] and that he was buried, and that he was raised on the third day according to the scriptures,
[1Cor 15:5] and that he appeared to Cephas, then to the twelve.
[1Cor 15:6] Then he appeared to more than five hundred of the brothers and sisters at one time, most of whom are still alive, though some have fallen asleep.
[1Cor 15:7] Then he appeared to James, then to all the apostles.
[1Cor 15:8] Last of all, as though to one born at the wrong time, he appeared to me also.
[1Cor 15:9] For I am the least of the apostles, unworthy to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God.
[1Cor 15:10] But by the grace of God I am what I am, and his grace to me has not been in vain. In fact, I worked harder than all of them – yet not I, but the grace of God with me.
[1Cor 15:11] Whether then it was I or they, this is the way we preach and this is the way you believed.

## The Importance of the Resurrection
¶[1Cor 15:12] Now if Christ is being preached as raised from the dead, how can some of you say there is no resurrection of the dead?
[1Cor 15:13] But if there is no resurrection of the dead, then not even Christ has been raised.
[1Cor 15:14] And if Christ has not been raised, then our preaching is futile and your faith is empty.
[1Cor 15:15] Also, we are found to be false witnesses about God, because we have testified against God that he raised Christ from the dead, when in reality he did not raise him, if indeed the dead are not raised.
[1Cor 15:16] For if the dead are not raised, then not even Christ has been raised.
[1Cor 15:17] And if Christ has not been raised, your faith is useless; you are still in your sins.
[1Cor 15:18] Furthermore, those who have fallen asleep in Christ have also perished.
[1Cor 15:19] For if only in this life we have hope in Christ, we should be pitied more than anyone.

¶[1Cor 15:20] But now Christ has been raised from the dead, the firstfruits of those who have fallen asleep.
[1Cor 15:21] For since death came through a man, the resurrection of the dead also came through a man.
[1Cor 15:22] For just as in Adam all die, so also in Christ all will be made alive.
[1Cor 15:23] But each in his own order: Christ, the firstfruits; then when Christ comes, those who belong to him.
[1Cor 15:24] Then comes the end, when he hands over the kingdom to God the Father, when he has brought to an end all rule and all authority and power.
[1Cor 15:25] For he must reign until he has put all his enemies under his feet.
[1Cor 15:26] The last enemy to be eliminated is death.
[1Cor 15:27] For he has put everything in subjection under his feet. But when it says “everything” has been put in subjection, it is clear that this does not include the one who put everything in subjection to him.
[1Cor 15:28] And when all things are subjected to him, then the Son himself will be subjected to the one who subjected everything to him, so that God may be all in all.

¶[1Cor 15:29] Otherwise, what will those do who are baptized for the dead? If the dead are not raised at all, then why are they baptized for them?
[1Cor 15:30] Why too are we in danger every hour?
[1Cor 15:31] Every day I am in danger of death! This is as sure as my boasting in you, which I have in Christ Jesus our Lord.
[1Cor 15:32] If from a human point of view I fought with wild beasts at Ephesus, what did it benefit me? If the dead are not raised, let us eat and drink, for tomorrow we die.
[1Cor 15:33] Do not be deceived: “Bad company corrupts good morals.”
[1Cor 15:34] Sober up as you should, and stop sinning! For some have no knowledge of God – I say this to your shame!

## The Nature of the Resurrection Body
¶[1Cor 15:35] But someone will say, “How are the dead raised? With what kind of body will they come?”
[1Cor 15:36] Fool! What you sow will not come to life unless it dies.
[1Cor 15:37] And what you sow is not the body that is to be, but a bare seed – perhaps of wheat or something else.
[1Cor 15:38] But God gives it a body just as he planned, and to each of the seeds a body of its own.
[1Cor 15:39] All flesh is not the same: People have one flesh, animals have another, birds and fish another.
[1Cor 15:40] And there are heavenly bodies and earthly bodies. The glory of the heavenly body is one sort and the earthly another.
[1Cor 15:41] There is one glory of the sun, and another glory of the moon and another glory of the stars, for star differs from star in glory.
[1Cor 15:42] It is the same with the resurrection of the dead. What is sown is perishable, what is raised is imperishable.
[1Cor 15:43] It is sown in dishonor, it is raised in glory; it is sown in weakness, it is raised in power;
[1Cor 15:44] it is sown a natural body, it is raised a spiritual body. If there is a natural body, there is also a spiritual body.
[1Cor 15:45] So also it is written, “The first man, Adam, became a living person”; the last Adam became a life-giving spirit.
[1Cor 15:46] However, the spiritual did not come first, but the natural, and then the spiritual.
[1Cor 15:47] The first man is from the earth, made of dust; the second man is from heaven.
[1Cor 15:48] Like the one made of dust, so too are those made of dust, and like the one from heaven, so too those who are heavenly.
[1Cor 15:49] And just as we have borne the image of the man of dust, let us also bear the image of the man of heaven.

## Victory over Death
¶[1Cor 15:50] Now this is what I am saying, brothers and sisters: Flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God, nor does the perishable inherit the imperishable.
[1Cor 15:51] Listen, I will tell you a mystery: We will not all sleep, but we will all be changed –
[1Cor 15:52] in a moment, in the blinking of an eye, at the last trumpet. For the trumpet will sound, and the dead will be raised imperishable, and we will be changed.
[1Cor 15:53] For this perishable body must put on the imperishable, and this mortal body must put on immortality.
[1Cor 15:54] Now when this perishable puts on the imperishable, and this mortal puts on immortality, then the saying that is written will happen, “Death has been swallowed up in victory.”
[1Cor 15:55] “Where, O death, is your victory? Where, O death, is your sting?”
[1Cor 15:56] The sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law.
[1Cor 15:57] But thanks be to God, who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ!
[1Cor 15:58] So then, dear brothers and sisters, be firm. Do not be moved! Always be outstanding in the work of the Lord, knowing that your labor is not in vain in the Lord.
