# 1 Corinthians 16

## Instructions on the Collection for the Saints
¶[1Cor 16:1] With regard to the collection for the saints, please follow the directions that I gave to the churches of Galatia:
[1Cor 16:2] On the first day of the week, each of you should set aside some income and save it to the extent that God has blessed you, so that a collection will not have to be made when I come.
[1Cor 16:3] Then, when I arrive, I will send those whom you approve with letters of explanation to carry your gift to Jerusalem.
[1Cor 16:4] And if it seems advisable that I should go also, they will go with me.

## Paul's Travel Plans
¶[1Cor 16:5] But I will come to you after I have gone through Macedonia – for I will be going through Macedonia –
[1Cor 16:6] and perhaps I will stay with you, or even spend the winter, so that you can send me on my journey, wherever I go.
[1Cor 16:7] For I do not want to see you now in passing, since I hope to spend some time with you, if the Lord allows.
[1Cor 16:8] But I will stay in Ephesus until Pentecost,
[1Cor 16:9] because a door of great opportunity stands wide open for me, but there are many opponents.

¶[1Cor 16:10] Now if Timothy comes, see that he has nothing to fear among you, for he is doing the Lord’s work, as I am too.
[1Cor 16:11] So then, let no one treat him with contempt. But send him on his way in peace so that he may come to me. For I am expecting him with the brothers.
[1Cor 16:12] With regard to our brother Apollos: I strongly encouraged him to visit you with the other brothers, but it was simply not his intention to come now. He will come when he has the opportunity.

## General Exhortations and Greetings
¶[1Cor 16:13] Stay alert, stand firm in the faith, show courage, be strong.
[1Cor 16:14] Everything you do should be done in love.

¶[1Cor 16:15] Now, brothers and sisters, you know about the household of Stephanus, that as the first converts of Achaia, they devoted themselves to ministry for the saints. I urge you
[1Cor 16:16] also to submit to people like this, and to everyone who cooperates in the work and labors hard.
[1Cor 16:17] I was glad about the arrival of Stephanus, Fortunatus, and Achaicus because they have supplied the fellowship with you that I lacked.
[1Cor 16:18] For they refreshed my spirit and yours. So then, recognize people like this.

¶[1Cor 16:19] The churches in the province of Asia send greetings to you. Aquila and Prisca greet you warmly in the Lord, with the church that meets in their house.
[1Cor 16:20] All the brothers and sisters send greetings. Greet one another with a holy kiss.

¶[1Cor 16:21] I, Paul, send this greeting with my own hand.
[1Cor 16:22] Let anyone who has no love for the Lord be accursed. Our Lord, come!
[1Cor 16:23] The grace of the Lord Jesus be with you.
[1Cor 16:24] My love be with all of you in Christ Jesus.
