# Micah 7

## The moral corruption
¶[Mic 7:1] Woe is me! For I am like those gathering fruit, and those harvesting grapes, when there is no grape cluster to eat, and no fresh figs that my stomach craves.
[Mic 7:2] Faithful men have disappeared from the land; there are no godly men left. They all wait in ambush to shed blood; they hunt their own brother with a net.

## Judgments on the wicked
¶[Mic 7:3] They are experts at doing evil; government officials and judges take bribes, prominent men announce what they wish and then they plan it out.
[Mic 7:4] The best of them is like a thorn; their godly are like a thorn bush. Woe to your watchmen; your appointed punishment is on the way. The time of their confusion is now.

## Trust no one
¶[Mic 7:5] Do not rely on a friend; do not trust a companion! Even with the one who lies in your arms, do not share secrets!
[Mic 7:6] For a son thinks his father is a fool, a daughter challenges her mother, and a daughter-in-law her mother-in-law; a man’s enemies are his own family.

## Faithful waiting
¶[Mic 7:7] But I will keep watching for the Lord; I will wait for the God who delivers me. My God will listen to me.

## Defense and redemption
¶[Mic 7:8] My enemies, do not gloat over me! Though I have fallen, I will get up. Though I sit in darkness, the Lord will be my light.
[Mic 7:9] I must endure the Lord’s fury, for I have sinned against him. But then he will defend my cause, and accomplish justice on my behalf. He will lead me out into the light; I will witness his deliverance.
[Mic 7:10] When my enemies see this, they will be covered with shame. They say to me, “Where is the Lord your God?” I will gloat over them. Then they will be trampled down like mud in the streets.

## Rebuilding and expanding
¶[Mic 7:11] It will be a day for rebuilding your walls; in that day your boundary will be extended.
[Mic 7:12] In that day people will come to you from Assyria as far as Egypt, from Egypt as far as the Euphrates River, from the seacoasts and the mountains.
[Mic 7:13] The earth will become desolate because of what its inhabitants have done.

## Shepherd and flock
¶[Mic 7:14] Shepherd your people with your rod, the flock that belongs to you, the one that lives alone in a thicket, in the midst of a pastureland. Allow them to graze in Bashan and Gilead, as they did in the old days.
[Mic 7:15] “As in the days when you departed from the land of Egypt, I will show you miraculous deeds.”

## The Lord's power and compassion
¶[Mic 7:16] Nations will see this and be disappointed by all their strength, they will put their hands over their mouths, and act as if they were deaf.
[Mic 7:17] They will lick the dust like a snake, like serpents crawling on the ground. They will come trembling from their strongholds to the Lord our God; they will be terrified of you.

## Forgiving and restoring
¶[Mic 7:18] Who is a God like you? Who forgives sin and pardons the rebellion of those who remain among his people? Who does not stay angry forever, but delights in showing loyal love?
[Mic 7:19] Who will once again have mercy on us? Who will conquer our evil deeds? Who will hurl all our sins into the depths of the sea?
[Mic 7:20] You will be loyal to Jacob and extend your loyal love to Abraham, which you promised on oath to our ancestors in ancient times.
