# Amos 3

## Israel's Special Relationship and Punishment
¶[Amos 3:1] Listen, you Israelites, to this message which the Lord is proclaiming against you! This message is for the entire clan I brought up from the land of Egypt:
[Amos 3:2] “I have chosen you alone from all the clans of the earth. Therefore I will punish you for all your sins.”

## Rhetorical Questions and Consequences
¶[Amos 3:3] Do two walk together without having met?
[Amos 3:4] Does a lion roar in the woods if he has not cornered his prey? Does a young lion bellow from his den if he has not caught something?
[Amos 3:5] Does a bird swoop down into a trap on the ground if there is no bait? Does a trap spring up from the ground unless it has surely caught something?
[Amos 3:6] If an alarm sounds in a city, do people not fear? If disaster overtakes a city, is the Lord not responsible?
[Amos 3:7] Certainly the Sovereign Lord does nothing without first revealing his plan to his servants the prophets.
[Amos 3:8] A lion has roared! Who is not afraid? The Sovereign Lord has spoken! Who can refuse to prophesy?

## Announcement of Judgment
¶[Amos 3:9] Make this announcement in the fortresses of Ashdod and in the fortresses in the land of Egypt. Say this: “Gather on the hills around Samaria! Observe the many acts of violence taking place within the city, the oppressive deeds occurring in it.”
[Amos 3:10] “They do not know how to do what is right.” (The Lord is speaking.) “They store up the spoils of destructive violence in their fortresses.
[Amos 3:11] Therefore,” says the Sovereign Lord, “an enemy will encircle the land. He will take away your power; your fortresses will be looted.”
[Amos 3:12] This is what the Lord says: “Just as a shepherd salvages from the lion’s mouth a couple of leg bones or a piece of an ear, so the Israelites who live in Samaria will be salvaged. They will be left with just a corner of a bed, and a part of a couch.”

¶[Amos 3:13] Listen and warn the family of Jacob! The Sovereign Lord, the God who commands armies, is speaking!
[Amos 3:14] “Certainly when I punish Israel for their covenant transgressions, I will destroy Bethel’s altars. The horns of the altar will be cut off and fall to the ground.
[Amos 3:15] I will destroy both the winter and summer houses. The houses filled with ivory will be ruined, the great houses will be swept away.” The Lord is speaking!
