# Joshua 11

## Kings amass forces
¶[Josh 11:1] When King Jabin of Hazor heard the news, he organized a coalition, including King Jobab of Madon, the king of Shimron, the king of Acshaph,
[Josh 11:2] and the northern kings who ruled in the hill country, the rift valley south of Kinnereth, the foothills, and the heights of Dor to the west.
[Josh 11:3] Canaanites came from the east and west; Amorites, Hittites, Perizzites, and Jebusites from the hill country; and Hivites from below Hermon in the area of Mizpah.
[Josh 11:4] These kings came out with their armies; they were as numerous as the sand on the seashore and had a large number of horses and chariots.
[Josh 11:5] All these kings gathered and joined forces at the Waters of Merom to fight Israel.

## God's command and assurance
¶[Josh 11:6] The Lord told Joshua, “Don’t be afraid of them, for about this time tomorrow I will cause all of them to lie dead before Israel. You must hamstring their horses and burn their chariots.”

## Decisive victory
¶[Josh 11:7] Joshua and his whole army caught them by surprise at the Waters of Merom and attacked them.
[Josh 11:8] The Lord handed them over to Israel and they struck them down and chased them all the way to Greater Sidon, Misrephoth Maim, and the Mizpah Valley to the east. They struck them down until no survivors remained.
[Josh 11:9] Joshua did to them as the Lord had commanded him; he hamstrung their horses and burned their chariots.

¶[Josh 11:10] At that time Joshua turned, captured Hazor, and struck down its king with the sword, for Hazor was at that time the leader of all these kingdoms.
[Josh 11:11] They annihilated everyone who lived there with the sword – no one who breathed remained – and burned Hazor.
[Josh 11:12] Joshua captured all these royal cities and all their kings and annihilated them with the sword, as Moses the Lord’s servant had commanded.
[Josh 11:13] But Israel did not burn any of the cities located on mounds, except for Hazor; it was the only one Joshua burned.
[Josh 11:14] The Israelites plundered all the goods of these cities and the cattle, but they totally destroyed all the people and allowed no one who breathed to live.
[Josh 11:15] Moses the Lord’s servant passed on the Lord’s commands to Joshua, and Joshua did as he was told. He did not ignore any of the commands the Lord had given Moses.

## Summary of the conquests
¶[Josh 11:16] Joshua conquered the whole land, including the hill country, all the Negev, all the land of Goshen, the foothills, the rift valley, the hill country of Israel and its foothills,
[Josh 11:17] from Mount Halak on up to Seir, as far as Baal Gad in the Lebanon Valley below Mount Hermon. He captured all their kings and executed them.
[Josh 11:18] Joshua campaigned against these kings for quite some time.
[Josh 11:19] No city made peace with the Israelites (except the Hivites living in Gibeon); they had to conquer all of them,
[Josh 11:20] for the Lord determined to make them obstinate so they would attack Israel. He wanted Israel to annihilate them without mercy, as he had instructed Moses.

¶[Josh 11:21] At that time Joshua attacked and eliminated the Anakites from the hill country – from Hebron, Debir, Anab, and all the hill country of Judah and Israel. Joshua annihilated them and their cities.
[Josh 11:22] No Anakites were left in Israelite territory, though some remained in Gaza, Gath, and Ashdod.
[Josh 11:23] Joshua conquered the whole land, just as the Lord had promised Moses, and he assigned Israel their tribal portions. Then the land was free of war.
