# Joshua 15

## Judah's territory
¶[Josh 15:1] The land allotted to the tribe of Judah by its clans reached to the border of Edom, to the wilderness of Zin in the Negev far to the south.
[Josh 15:2] Their southern border started at the southern tip of the Salt Sea,
[Josh 15:3] extended south of the Scorpion Ascent, crossed to Zin, went up from the south to Kadesh Barnea, crossed to Hezron, went up to Addar, and turned toward Karka.
[Josh 15:4] It then crossed to Azmon, extended to the Stream of Egypt, and ended at the sea. This was their southern border.
[Josh 15:5] The eastern border was the Salt Sea to the mouth of the Jordan River. The northern border started north of the Salt Sea at the mouth of the Jordan,
[Josh 15:6] went up to Beth Hoglah, crossed north of Beth Arabah, and went up to the Stone of Bohan son of Reuben.
[Josh 15:7] It then went up to Debir from the Valley of Achor, turning northward to Gilgal (which is opposite the Pass of Adummim south of the valley), crossed to the waters of En Shemesh and extended to En Rogel.
[Josh 15:8] It then went up the Valley of Ben Hinnom to the slope of the Jebusites on the south (that is, Jerusalem), going up to the top of the hill opposite the Valley of Ben Hinnom to the west, which is at the end of the Valley of the Rephaites to the north.
[Josh 15:9] It then went from the top of the hill to the spring of the waters of Nephtoah, extended to the cities of Mount Ephron, and went to Baalah (that is, Kiriath Jearim).
[Josh 15:10] It then turned from Baalah westward to Mount Seir, crossed to the slope of Mount Jearim on the north (that is Kesalon), descended to Beth Shemesh, and crossed to Timnah.
[Josh 15:11] It then extended to the slope of Ekron to the north, went toward Shikkeron, crossed to Mount Baalah, extended to Jabneel, and ended at the sea.
[Josh 15:12] The western border was the Mediterranean Sea. These were the borders of the tribe of Judah and its clans.

¶[Josh 15:13] Caleb son of Jephunneh was assigned Kiriath Arba (that is Hebron) within the tribe of Judah, according to the Lord’s instructions to Joshua. (Arba was the father of Anak.)
[Josh 15:14] Caleb drove out from there three Anakites – Sheshai, Ahiman, and Talmai, descendants of Anak.
[Josh 15:15] From there he attacked the people of Debir. (Debir used to be called Kiriath Sepher.)
[Josh 15:16] Caleb said, “To the man who attacks and captures Kiriath Sepher I will give my daughter Achsah as a wife.”
[Josh 15:17] When Othniel son of Kenaz, Caleb’s brother, captured it, Caleb gave Achsah his daughter to him as a wife.
[Josh 15:18] One time Achsah came and charmed her father so that she could ask him for some land. When she got down from her donkey, Caleb said to her, “What would you like?”
[Josh 15:19] She answered, “Please give me a special present. Since you have given me land in the Negev, now give me springs of water.” So he gave her both upper and lower springs.

¶[Josh 15:20] This is the land assigned to the tribe of Judah by its clans:

¶[Josh 15:21] These cities were located at the southern extremity of Judah’s tribal land near the border of Edom: Kabzeel, Eder, Jagur,
[Josh 15:22] Kinah, Dimonah, Adadah,
[Josh 15:23] Kedesh, Hazor, Ithnan,
[Josh 15:24] Ziph, Telem, Bealoth,
[Josh 15:25] Hazor Hadattah, Kerioth Hezron (that is, Hazor),
[Josh 15:26] Amam, Shema, Moladah,
[Josh 15:27] Hazar Gaddah, Heshbon, Beth Pelet,
[Josh 15:28] Hazar Shual, Beer Sheba, Biziothiah,
[Josh 15:29] Baalah, Iim, Ezem,
[Josh 15:30] Eltolad, Kesil, Hormah,
[Josh 15:31] Ziklag, Madmannah, Sansannah,
[Josh 15:32] Lebaoth, Shilhim, Ain, and Rimmon – a total of twenty-nine cities and their towns.

¶[Josh 15:33] These cities were in the foothills: Eshtaol, Zorah, Ashnah,
[Josh 15:34] Zanoah, En Gannim, Tappuah, Enam,
[Josh 15:35] Jarmuth, Adullam, Socoh, Azekah,
[Josh 15:36] Shaaraim, Adithaim, and Gederah (or Gederothaim) – a total of fourteen cities and their towns.

¶[Josh 15:37] Zenan, Hadashah, Migdal Gad,
[Josh 15:38] Dilean, Mizpah, Joktheel,
[Josh 15:39] Lachish, Bozkath, Eglon,
[Josh 15:40] Cabbon, Lahmas, Kitlish,
[Josh 15:41] Gederoth, Beth Dagon, Naamah, and Makkedah – a total of sixteen cities and their towns.

¶[Josh 15:42] Libnah, Ether, Ashan,
[Josh 15:43] Iphtah, Ashnah, Nezib,
[Josh 15:44] Keilah, Achzib, and Mareshah – a total of nine cities and their towns.

¶[Josh 15:45] Ekron and its surrounding towns and settlements;
[Josh 15:46] from Ekron westward, all those in the vicinity of Ashdod and their towns;

¶[Josh 15:47] Ashdod with its surrounding towns and settlements, and Gaza with its surrounding towns and settlements, as far as the Stream of Egypt and the border at the Mediterranean Sea.

¶[Josh 15:48] These cities were in the hill country: Shamir, Jattir, Socoh,
[Josh 15:49] Dannah, Kiriath Sannah (that is, Debir),
[Josh 15:50] Anab, Eshtemoh, Anim,
[Josh 15:51] Goshen, Holon, and Giloh – a total of eleven cities and their towns.

¶[Josh 15:52] Arab, Dumah, Eshan,
[Josh 15:53] Janim, Beth Tappuah, Aphekah,
[Josh 15:54] Humtah, Kiriath Arba (that is, Hebron), and Zior – a total of nine cities and their towns.

¶[Josh 15:55] Maon, Carmel, Ziph, Juttah,
[Josh 15:56] Jezreel, Jokdeam, Zanoah,
[Josh 15:57] Kain, Gibeah, and Timnah – a total of ten cities and their towns.

¶[Josh 15:58] Halhul, Beth Zur, Gedor,
[Josh 15:59] Maarath, Beth Anoth, and Eltekon – a total of six cities and their towns.

¶[Josh 15:60] Kiriath Baal (that is, Kiriath Jearim) and Rabbah – a total of two cities and their towns.

¶[Josh 15:61] These cities were in the wilderness: Beth Arabah, Middin, Secacah,
[Josh 15:62] Nibshan, the city of Salt, and En Gedi – a total of six cities and their towns.

¶[Josh 15:63] The men of Judah were unable to conquer the Jebusites living in Jerusalem. The Jebusites live with the people of Judah in Jerusalem to this very day.
