# Joshua 19

¶[Josh 19:1] The second lot belonged to the tribe of Simeon by its clans. Their assigned land was in the middle of Judah’s assigned land.
[Josh 19:2] Their assigned land included Beer Sheba, Moladah,
[Josh 19:3] Hazar Shual, Balah, Ezem,
[Josh 19:4] Eltolad, Bethul, Hormah,
[Josh 19:5] Ziklag, Beth Marcaboth, Hazar Susah,
[Josh 19:6] Beth Lebaoth, and Sharuhen – a total of thirteen cities and their towns,
[Josh 19:7] Ain, Rimmon, Ether, and Ashan – a total of four cities and their towns,
[Josh 19:8] as well as all the towns around these cities as far as Baalath Beer (Ramah of the Negev). This was the land assigned to the tribe of Simeon by its clans.
[Josh 19:9] Simeon’s assigned land was taken from Judah’s allotted portion, for Judah’s territory was too large for them; so Simeon was assigned land within Judah.

¶[Josh 19:10] The third lot belonged to the tribe of Zebulun by its clans. The border of their territory extended to Sarid.
[Josh 19:11] Their border went up westward to Maralah and touched Dabbesheth and the valley near Jokneam.
[Josh 19:12] From Sarid it turned eastward to the territory of Kisloth Tabor, extended to Daberath, and went up to Japhia.
[Josh 19:13] From there it crossed eastward to Gath Hepher and Eth Kazin and extended to Rimmon, turning toward Neah.
[Josh 19:14] It then turned on the north to Hannathon and ended at the Valley of Iphtah El.
[Josh 19:15] Their territory included Kattah, Nahalal, Shimron, Idalah, and Bethlehem; in all they had twelve cities and their towns.
[Josh 19:16] This was the land assigned to the tribe of Zebulun by its clans, including these cities and their towns.

¶[Josh 19:17] The fourth lot belonged to the tribe of Issachar by its clans.
[Josh 19:18] Their assigned land included Jezreel, Kesulloth, Shunem,
[Josh 19:19] Hapharaim, Shion, Anaharath,
[Josh 19:20] Rabbith, Kishion, Ebez,
[Josh 19:21] Remeth, En Gannim, En Haddah and Beth Pazzez.
[Josh 19:22] Their border touched Tabor, Shahazumah, and Beth Shemesh, and ended at the Jordan. They had sixteen cities and their towns.
[Josh 19:23] This was the land assigned to the tribe of Issachar by its clans, including the cities and their towns.

¶[Josh 19:24] The fifth lot belonged to the tribe of Asher by its clans.
[Josh 19:25] Their territory included Helkath, Hali, Beten, Acshaph,
[Josh 19:26] Alammelech, Amad, and Mishal. Their border touched Carmel to the west and Shihor Libnath.
[Josh 19:27] It turned eastward toward Beth Dagon, touched Zebulun and the Valley of Iphtah El to the north, as well as Beth Emek and Neiel, and extended to Cabul on the north
[Josh 19:28] and on to Ebron, Rehob, Hammon, and Kanah, as far as Greater Sidon.
[Josh 19:29] It then turned toward Ramah as far as the fortified city of Tyre, turned to Hosah, and ended at the sea near Hebel, Achzib,
[Josh 19:30] Umah, Aphek, and Rehob. In all they had twenty-two cities and their towns.
[Josh 19:31] This was the land assigned to the tribe of Asher by its clans, including these cities and their towns.

¶[Josh 19:32] The sixth lot belonged to the tribe of Naphtali by its clans.
[Josh 19:33] Their border started at Heleph and the oak of Zaanannim, went to Adami Nekeb, Jabneel and on to Lakkum, and ended at the Jordan River.
[Josh 19:34] It turned westward to Aznoth Tabor, extended from there to Hukok, touched Zebulun on the south, Asher on the west, and the Jordan on the east.
[Josh 19:35] The fortified cities included Ziddim, Zer, Hammath, Rakkath, Kinnereth,
[Josh 19:36] Adamah, Ramah, Hazor,
[Josh 19:37] Kedesh, Edrei, En Hazor,
[Josh 19:38] Yiron, Migdal El, Horem, Beth Anath, and Beth Shemesh. In all they had nineteen cities and their towns.
[Josh 19:39] This was the land assigned to the tribe of Naphtali by its clans, including the cities and their towns.

¶[Josh 19:40] The seventh lot belonged to the tribe of Dan by its clans.
[Josh 19:41] Their assigned land included Zorah, Eshtaol, Ir Shemesh,
[Josh 19:42] Shaalabbin, Aijalon, Ithlah,
[Josh 19:43] Elon, Timnah, Ekron,
[Josh 19:44] Eltekeh, Gibbethon, Baalath,
[Josh 19:45] Jehud, Bene Berak, Gath Rimmon,
[Josh 19:46] the waters of Jarkon, and Rakkon, including the territory in front of Joppa.
[Josh 19:47] (The Danites failed to conquer their territory, so they went up and fought with Leshem and captured it. They put the sword to it, took possession of it, and lived in it. They renamed it Dan after their ancestor.)
[Josh 19:48] This was the land assigned to the tribe of Dan by its clans, including these cities and their towns.

¶[Josh 19:49] When they finished dividing the land into its regions, the Israelites gave Joshua son of Nun some land.
[Josh 19:50] As the Lord had instructed, they gave him the city he requested – Timnath Serah in the Ephraimite hill country. He built up the city and lived in it.

¶[Josh 19:51] These are the land assignments which Eleazar the priest, Joshua son of Nun, and the Israelite tribal leaders made by drawing lots in Shiloh before the Lord at the entrance of the tent of meeting. So they finished dividing up the land.
