# Joshua 21

## Levitical towns
¶[Josh 21:1] The tribal leaders of the Levites went before Eleazar the priest and Joshua son of Nun and the Israelite tribal leaders
[Josh 21:2] in Shiloh in the land of Canaan and said, “The Lord told Moses to assign us cities in which to live along with the grazing areas for our cattle.”
[Josh 21:3] So the Israelites assigned these cities and their grazing areas to the Levites from their own holdings, as the Lord had instructed.

¶[Josh 21:4] The first lot belonged to the Kohathite clans. The Levites who were descendants of Aaron the priest were allotted thirteen cities from the tribes of Judah, Simeon, and Benjamin.

¶[Josh 21:5] The rest of Kohath’s descendants were allotted ten cities from the clans of the tribe of Ephraim, and from the tribe of Dan and the half-tribe of Manasseh.

¶[Josh 21:6] Gershon’s descendants were allotted thirteen cities from the clans of the tribe of Issachar, and from the tribes of Asher and Naphtali and the half-tribe of Manasseh in Bashan.

¶[Josh 21:7] Merari’s descendants by their clans were allotted twelve cities from the tribes of Reuben, Gad, and Zebulun.

¶[Josh 21:8] So the Israelites assigned to the Levites by lot these cities and their grazing areas, as the Lord had instructed Moses.
[Josh 21:9] They assigned from the tribes of Judah and Simeon the cities listed below.
[Josh 21:10] They were assigned to the Kohathite clans of the Levites who were descendants of Aaron, for the first lot belonged to them.
[Josh 21:11] They assigned them Kiriath Arba (Arba was the father of Anak), that is, Hebron, in the hill country of Judah, along with its surrounding grazing areas.
[Josh 21:12] (Now the city’s fields and surrounding towns they had assigned to Caleb son of Jephunneh as his property.)

¶[Josh 21:13] So to the descendants of Aaron the priest they assigned Hebron (a city of refuge for one who committed manslaughter), Libnah,
[Josh 21:14] Jattir, Eshtemoa,
[Josh 21:15] Holon, Debir,
[Josh 21:16] Ain, Juttah, and Beth Shemesh, along with the grazing areas of each – a total of nine cities taken from these two tribes.
[Josh 21:17] From the tribe of Benjamin they assigned Gibeon, Geba,
[Josh 21:18] Anathoth, and Almon, along with the grazing areas of each – a total of four cities.
[Josh 21:19] The priests descended from Aaron received thirteen cities and their grazing areas.

¶[Josh 21:20] The rest of the Kohathite clans of the Levites were allotted cities from the tribe of Ephraim.
[Josh 21:21] They assigned them Shechem (a city of refuge for one who committed manslaughter) in the hill country of Ephraim, Gezer,
[Josh 21:22] Kibzaim, and Beth Horon, along with the grazing areas of each – a total of four cities.
[Josh 21:23] From the tribe of Dan they assigned Eltekeh, Gibbethon,
[Josh 21:24] Aijalon, and Gath Rimmon, along with the grazing areas of each – a total of four cities.
[Josh 21:25] From the half-tribe of Manasseh they assigned Taanach and Gath Rimmon, along with the grazing areas of each – a total of two cities.
[Josh 21:26] The rest of the Kohathite clans received ten cities and their grazing areas.

¶[Josh 21:27] They assigned to the Gershonite clans of the Levites the following cities: from the half-tribe of Manasseh: Golan in Bashan (a city of refuge for one who committed manslaughter) and Beeshtarah, along with the grazing areas of each – a total of two cities;
[Josh 21:28] from the tribe of Issachar: Kishon, Daberath,
[Josh 21:29] Jarmuth, and En Gannim, along with the grazing areas of each – a total of four cities;
[Josh 21:30] from the tribe of Asher: Mishal, Abdon,
[Josh 21:31] Helkath, and Rehob, along with the grazing areas of each – a total of four cities;
[Josh 21:32] from the tribe of Naphtali: Kedesh in Galilee (a city of refuge for one who committed manslaughter), Hammoth Dor, and Kartan, along with the grazing areas of each – a total of three cities.
[Josh 21:33] The Gershonite clans received thirteen cities and their grazing areas.

¶[Josh 21:34] They assigned to the Merarite clans (the remaining Levites) the following cities: from the tribe of Zebulun: Jokneam, Kartah,
[Josh 21:35] Dimnah, and Nahalal, along with the grazing areas of each – a total of four cities;
[Josh 21:36] from the tribe of Reuben: Bezer, Jahaz,
[Josh 21:37] Kedemoth, and Mephaath, along with the grazing areas of each – a total of four cities;
[Josh 21:38] from the tribe of Gad: Ramoth in Gilead (a city of refuge for one who committed manslaughter), Mahanaim,
[Josh 21:39] Heshbon, and Jazer, along with the grazing areas of each – a total of four cities.
[Josh 21:40] The Merarite clans (the remaining Levites) were allotted twelve cities.

¶[Josh 21:41] The Levites received within the land owned by the Israelites forty-eight cities in all and their grazing areas.
[Josh 21:42] Each of these cities had grazing areas around it; they were alike in this regard.

¶[Josh 21:43] So the Lord gave Israel all the land he had solemnly promised to their ancestors, and they conquered it and lived in it.
[Josh 21:44] The Lord made them secure, in fulfillment of all he had solemnly promised their ancestors. None of their enemies could resist them. The Lord handed all their enemies over to them.
[Josh 21:45] Not one of the Lord’s faithful promises to the family of Israel was left unfulfilled; every one was realized.
