# Matthew 1

## Genealogy of Jesus
¶[Matt 1:1] This is the record of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham.

¶[Matt 1:2] Abraham was the father of Isaac, Isaac the father of Jacob, Jacob the father of Judah and his brothers,
[Matt 1:3] Judah the father of Perez and Zerah (by Tamar), Perez the father of Hezron, Hezron the father of Ram,
[Matt 1:4] Ram the father of Amminadab, Amminadab the father of Nahshon, Nahshon the father of Salmon,
[Matt 1:5] Salmon the father of Boaz (by Rahab), Boaz the father of Obed (by Ruth), Obed the father of Jesse,
[Matt 1:6] and Jesse the father of David the king. David was the father of Solomon (by the wife of Uriah),
[Matt 1:7] Solomon the father of Rehoboam, Rehoboam the father of Abijah, Abijah the father of Asa,
[Matt 1:8] Asa the father of Jehoshaphat, Jehoshaphat the father of Joram, Joram the father of Uzziah,
[Matt 1:9] Uzziah the father of Jotham, Jotham the father of Ahaz, Ahaz the father of Hezekiah,
[Matt 1:10] Hezekiah the father of Manasseh, Manasseh the father of Amon, Amon the father of Josiah,
[Matt 1:11] and Josiah the father of Jeconiah and his brothers, at the time of the deportation to Babylon.

¶[Matt 1:12] After the deportation to Babylon, Jeconiah became the father of Shealtiel, Shealtiel the father of Zerubbabel,
[Matt 1:13] Zerubbabel the father of Abiud, Abiud the father of Eliakim, Eliakim the father of Azor,
[Matt 1:14] Azor the father of Zadok, Zadok the father of Achim, Achim the father of Eliud,
[Matt 1:15] Eliud the father of Eleazar, Eleazar the father of Matthan, Matthan the father of Jacob,
[Matt 1:16] and Jacob the father of Joseph, the husband of Mary, by whom Jesus was born, who is called Christ.

¶[Matt 1:17] So all the generations from Abraham to David are fourteen generations, and from David to the deportation to Babylon, fourteen generations, and from the deportation to Babylon to Christ, fourteen generations.

## Virgin Birth of Jesus
¶[Matt 1:18] Now the birth of Jesus Christ happened this way. While his mother Mary was engaged to Joseph, but before they came together, she was found to be pregnant through the Holy Spirit.
[Matt 1:19] Because Joseph, her husband to be, was a righteous man, and because he did not want to disgrace her, he intended to divorce her privately.
[Matt 1:20] When he had contemplated this, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream and said, “Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take Mary as your wife, because the child conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit.
[Matt 1:21] She will give birth to a son and you will name him Jesus, because he will save his people from their sins.”
[Matt 1:22] This all happened so that what was spoken by the Lord through the prophet would be fulfilled:

¶[Matt 1:23] “Look! The virgin will conceive and give birth to a son, and they will name him Emmanuel,” which means “God with us.”
[Matt 1:24] When Joseph awoke from sleep he did what the angel of the Lord told him. He took his wife,
[Matt 1:25] but did not have marital relations with her until she gave birth to a son, whom he named Jesus.
