# Matthew 12

## Jesus and the Sabbath
¶[Matt 12:1] At that time Jesus went through the grain fields on a Sabbath. His disciples were hungry, and they began to pick heads of wheat and eat them.
[Matt 12:2] But when the Pharisees saw this they said to him, “Look, your disciples are doing what is against the law to do on the Sabbath.”
[Matt 12:3] He said to them, “Haven’t you read what David did when he and his companions were hungry –
[Matt 12:4] how he entered the house of God and they ate the sacred bread, which was against the law for him or his companions to eat, but only for the priests?
[Matt 12:5] Or have you not read in the law that the priests in the temple desecrate the Sabbath and yet are not guilty?
[Matt 12:6] I tell you that something greater than the temple is here.
[Matt 12:7] If you had known what this means: ‘I want mercy and not sacrifice,’ you would not have condemned the innocent.
[Matt 12:8] For the Son of Man is lord of the Sabbath.”

¶[Matt 12:9] Then Jesus left that place and entered their synagogue.
[Matt 12:10] A man was there who had a withered hand. And they asked Jesus, “Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath?” so that they could accuse him.
[Matt 12:11] He said to them, “Would not any one of you, if he had one sheep that fell into a pit on the Sabbath, take hold of it and lift it out?
[Matt 12:12] How much more valuable is a person than a sheep! So it is lawful to do good on the Sabbath.”
[Matt 12:13] Then he said to the man, “Stretch out your hand.” He stretched it out and it was restored, as healthy as the other.
[Matt 12:14] But the Pharisees went out and plotted against him, as to how they could assassinate him.

## Jesus, God's Chosen Servant
¶[Matt 12:15] Now when Jesus learned of this, he went away from there. Great crowds followed him, and he healed them all.
[Matt 12:16] But he sternly warned them not to make him known.
[Matt 12:17] This fulfilled what was spoken by the prophet Isaiah:

¶[Matt 12:18] “Here is my servant whom I have chosen, the one I love, in whom I take great delight. I will put my Spirit on him, and he will proclaim justice to the nations.
[Matt 12:19] He will not quarrel or cry out, nor will anyone hear his voice in the streets.
[Matt 12:20] He will not break a bruised reed or extinguish a smoldering wick, until he brings justice to victory.
[Matt 12:21] And in his name the Gentiles will hope.”

## Jesus and Beelzebul
¶[Matt 12:22] Then they brought to him a demon-possessed man who was blind and mute. Jesus healed him so that he could speak and see.
[Matt 12:23] All the crowds were amazed and said, “Could this one be the Son of David?”
[Matt 12:24] But when the Pharisees heard this they said, “He does not cast out demons except by the power of Beelzebul, the ruler of demons!”
[Matt 12:25] Now when Jesus realized what they were thinking, he said to them, “Every kingdom divided against itself is destroyed, and no town or house divided against itself will stand.
[Matt 12:26] So if Satan casts out Satan, he is divided against himself. How then will his kingdom stand?
[Matt 12:27] And if I cast out demons by Beelzebul, by whom do your sons cast them out? For this reason they will be your judges.
[Matt 12:28] But if I cast out demons by the Spirit of God, then the kingdom of God has already overtaken you.
[Matt 12:29] How else can someone enter a strong man’s house and steal his property, unless he first ties up the strong man? Then he can thoroughly plunder the house.
[Matt 12:30] Whoever is not with me is against me, and whoever does not gather with me scatters.
[Matt 12:31] For this reason I tell you, people will be forgiven for every sin and blasphemy, but the blasphemy against the Spirit will not be forgiven.
[Matt 12:32] Whoever speaks a word against the Son of Man will be forgiven. But whoever speaks against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven, either in this age or in the age to come.
[Matt 12:33] “Make a tree good and its fruit will be good, or make a tree bad and its fruit will be bad, for a tree is known by its fruit.
[Matt 12:34] Offspring of vipers! How are you able to say anything good, since you are evil? For the mouth speaks from what fills the heart.
[Matt 12:35] The good person brings good things out of his good treasury, and the evil person brings evil things out of his evil treasury.
[Matt 12:36] I tell you that on the day of judgment, people will give an account for every worthless word they speak.
[Matt 12:37] For by your words you will be justified, and by your words you will be condemned.”

## Demand for a Sign
¶[Matt 12:38] Then some of the experts in the law along with some Pharisees answered him, “Teacher, we want to see a sign from you.”
[Matt 12:39] But he answered them, “An evil and adulterous generation asks for a sign, but no sign will be given to it except the sign of the prophet Jonah.
[Matt 12:40] For just as Jonah was in the belly of the huge fish for three days and three nights, so the Son of Man will be in the heart of the earth for three days and three nights.
[Matt 12:41] The people of Nineveh will stand up at the judgment with this generation and condemn it, because they repented when Jonah preached to them – and now, something greater than Jonah is here!
[Matt 12:42] The queen of the South will rise up at the judgment with this generation and condemn it, because she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon – and now, something greater than Solomon is here!
[Matt 12:43] “When an unclean spirit goes out of a person, it passes through waterless places looking for rest but does not find it.
[Matt 12:44] Then it says, ‘I will return to the home I left.’ When it returns, it finds the house empty, swept clean, and put in order.
[Matt 12:45] Then it goes and brings with it seven other spirits more evil than itself, and they go in and live there, so the last state of that person is worse than the first. It will be that way for this evil generation as well!”

## Jesus' True Family
¶[Matt 12:46] While Jesus was still speaking to the crowds, his mother and brothers came and stood outside, asking to speak to him.
[Matt 12:47] Someone told him, “Look, your mother and your brothers are standing outside wanting to speak to you.”
[Matt 12:48] To the one who had said this, Jesus replied, “Who is my mother and who are my brothers?”
[Matt 12:49] And pointing toward his disciples he said, “Here are my mother and my brothers!
[Matt 12:50] For whoever does the will of my Father in heaven is my brother and sister and mother.”
