# Matthew 15

## Debates with Pharisees and Teachings on Purity
¶[Matt 15:1] Then Pharisees and experts in the law came from Jerusalem to Jesus and said,
[Matt 15:2] “Why do your disciples disobey the tradition of the elders? For they don’t wash their hands when they eat.”
[Matt 15:3] He answered them, “And why do you disobey the commandment of God because of your tradition?
[Matt 15:4] For God said, ‘Honor your father and mother’ and ‘Whoever insults his father or mother must be put to death.’
[Matt 15:5] But you say, ‘If someone tells his father or mother, “Whatever help you would have received from me is given to God,”
[Matt 15:6] he does not need to honor his father.’ You have nullified the word of God on account of your tradition.
[Matt 15:7] Hypocrites! Isaiah prophesied correctly about you when he said,

¶[Matt 15:8] ‘This people honors me with their lips, but their heart is far from me,
[Matt 15:9] and they worship me in vain, teaching as doctrines the commandments of men.’”

¶[Matt 15:10] Then he called the crowd to him and said, “Listen and understand.
[Matt 15:11] What defiles a person is not what goes into the mouth; it is what comes out of the mouth that defiles a person.”
[Matt 15:12] Then the disciples came to him and said, “Do you know that when the Pharisees heard this saying they were offended?”
[Matt 15:13] And he replied, “Every plant that my heavenly Father did not plant will be uprooted.
[Matt 15:14] Leave them! They are blind guides. If someone who is blind leads another who is blind, both will fall into a pit.”
[Matt 15:15] But Peter said to him, “Explain this parable to us.”
[Matt 15:16] Jesus said, “Even after all this, are you still so foolish?
[Matt 15:17] Don’t you understand that whatever goes into the mouth enters the stomach and then passes out into the sewer?
[Matt 15:18] But the things that come out of the mouth come from the heart, and these things defile a person.
[Matt 15:19] For out of the heart come evil ideas, murder, adultery, sexual immorality, theft, false testimony, slander.
[Matt 15:20] These are the things that defile a person; it is not eating with unwashed hands that defiles a person.”

## Healing a Canaanite Woman's Daughter
¶[Matt 15:21] After going out from there, Jesus went to the region of Tyre and Sidon.
[Matt 15:22] A Canaanite woman from that area came and cried out, “Have mercy on me, Lord, Son of David! My daughter is horribly demon-possessed!”
[Matt 15:23] But he did not answer her a word. Then his disciples came and begged him, “Send her away, because she keeps on crying out after us.”
[Matt 15:24] So he answered, “I was sent only to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.”
[Matt 15:25] But she came and bowed down before him and said, “Lord, help me!”
[Matt 15:26] “It is not right to take the children’s bread and throw it to the dogs,” he said.
[Matt 15:27] “Yes, Lord,” she replied, “but even the dogs eat the crumbs that fall from their masters’ table.”
[Matt 15:28] Then Jesus answered her, “Woman, your faith is great! Let what you want be done for you.” And her daughter was healed from that hour.

## Jesus Heals Many and Feeds the Four Thousand
¶[Matt 15:29] When he left there, Jesus went along the Sea of Galilee. Then he went up a mountain, where he sat down.
[Matt 15:30] Then large crowds came to him bringing with them the lame, blind, crippled, mute, and many others. They laid them at his feet, and he healed them.
[Matt 15:31] As a result, the crowd was amazed when they saw the mute speaking, the crippled healthy, the lame walking, and the blind seeing, and they praised the God of Israel.

¶[Matt 15:32] Then Jesus called the disciples and said, “I have compassion on the crowd, because they have already been here with me three days and they have nothing to eat. I don’t want to send them away hungry since they may faint on the way.”
[Matt 15:33] The disciples said to him, “Where can we get enough bread in this desolate place to satisfy so great a crowd?”
[Matt 15:34] Jesus said to them, “How many loaves do you have?” They replied, “Seven – and a few small fish.”
[Matt 15:35] After instructing the crowd to sit down on the ground,
[Matt 15:36] he took the seven loaves and the fish, and after giving thanks, he broke them and began giving them to the disciples, who then gave them to the crowds.
[Matt 15:37] They all ate and were satisfied, and they picked up the broken pieces left over, seven baskets full.
[Matt 15:38] Not counting children and women, there were four thousand men who ate.
[Matt 15:39] After sending away the crowd, he got into the boat and went to the region of Magadan.
