# Matthew 28

¶[Matt 28:1] Now after the Sabbath, at dawn on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary went to look at the tomb.
[Matt 28:2] Suddenly there was a severe earthquake, for an angel of the Lord descending from heaven came and rolled away the stone and sat on it.
[Matt 28:3] His appearance was like lightning, and his clothes were white as snow.
[Matt 28:4] The guards were shaken and became like dead men because they were so afraid of him.
[Matt 28:5] But the angel said to the women, “Do not be afraid; I know that you are looking for Jesus, who was crucified.
[Matt 28:6] He is not here, for he has been raised, just as he said. Come and see the place where he was lying.
[Matt 28:7] Then go quickly and tell his disciples, ‘He has been raised from the dead. He is going ahead of you into Galilee. You will see him there.’ Listen, I have told you!”
[Matt 28:8] So they left the tomb quickly, with fear and great joy, and ran to tell his disciples.
[Matt 28:9] But Jesus met them, saying, “Greetings!” They came to him, held on to his feet and worshiped him.
[Matt 28:10] Then Jesus said to them, “Do not be afraid. Go and tell my brothers to go to Galilee. They will see me there.”

## The Report of the Guard
¶[Matt 28:11] While they were going, some of the guard went into the city and told the chief priests everything that had happened.
[Matt 28:12] After they had assembled with the elders and formed a plan, they gave a large sum of money to the soldiers,
[Matt 28:13] telling them, “You are to say, ‘His disciples came at night and stole his body while we were asleep.’
[Matt 28:14] If this matter is heard before the governor, we will satisfy him and keep you out of trouble.”
[Matt 28:15] So they took the money and did as they were instructed. And this story is told among the Jews to this day.

## The Great Commission
¶[Matt 28:16] So the eleven disciples went to Galilee to the mountain Jesus had designated.
[Matt 28:17] When they saw him, they worshiped him, but some doubted.
[Matt 28:18] Then Jesus came up and said to them, “All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me.
[Matt 28:19] Therefore go and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit,
[Matt 28:20] teaching them to obey everything I have commanded you. And remember, I am with you always, to the end of the age.”
