# Proverbs 1

## Title and Purpose
¶`Prov 1:1` The Proverbs of Solomon, son of David, king of Israel:

¶`Prov 1:2` To learn wisdom and moral instruction, to discern wise counsel.

## Benefits of Proverbs
¶`Prov 1:3` To receive moral instruction in skillful living, with righteousness, justice, and equity.
`Prov 1:4` To impart shrewdness to the morally naive, a discerning plan to the young person.
`Prov 1:5` (Let the wise also hear and gain instruction, and let the discerning acquire guidance!)
`Prov 1:6` To discern the meaning of a proverb and a parable, the sayings of the wise and their riddles.

## Foundation of Wisdom
¶`Prov 1:7` Fearing the Lord is the beginning of discernment, but fools have despised wisdom and moral instruction.

## Warnings against Evil Companions
¶`Prov 1:8` Listen, my child, to the instruction from your father, and do not forsake the teaching from your mother.
`Prov 1:9` For they will be like an elegant garland on your head, and like pendants around your neck.
`Prov 1:10` My child, if sinners try to entice you, do not consent!
`Prov 1:11` If they say, “Come with us! We will lie in wait to shed blood; we will ambush an innocent person capriciously.
`Prov 1:12` We will swallow them alive like Sheol, those full of vigor like those going down to the Pit.
`Prov 1:13` We will seize all kinds of precious wealth; we will fill our houses with plunder.
`Prov 1:14` Join with us! We will all share equally in what we steal.”
`Prov 1:15` My child, do not go down their way, withhold yourself from their path;
`Prov 1:16` for they are eager to inflict harm, and they hasten to shed blood.
`Prov 1:17` Surely it is futile to spread a net in plain sight of any bird,
`Prov 1:18` but these men lie in wait for their own blood, they ambush their own lives!
`Prov 1:19` Such are the ways of all who gain profit unjustly; it takes away the life of those who obtain it!

## Wisdom's Call
¶`Prov 1:20` Wisdom calls out in the street, she shouts loudly in the plazas;
`Prov 1:21` at the head of the noisy streets she calls, in the entrances of the gates in the city she utters her words:
`Prov 1:22` “How long will you simpletons love naiveté? How long have mockers delighted in mockery? And how long will fools hate knowledge?
`Prov 1:23` You should respond to my rebuke. Then I would pour out my thoughts to you; I would make my words known to you.
`Prov 1:24` However, because I called but you refused to listen, because I stretched out my hand but no one was paying attention,
`Prov 1:25` and you neglected all my advice, and did not comply with my rebuke,
`Prov 1:26` so I myself will laugh when disaster strikes you, I will mock when what you dread comes,
`Prov 1:27` when what you dread comes like a whirlwind, and disaster strikes you like a devastating storm, when distressing trouble comes on you.
`Prov 1:28` Then they will call to me, but I will not answer; they will diligently seek me, but they will not find me.
`Prov 1:29` Because they hated moral knowledge, and did not choose to fear the Lord,
`Prov 1:30` they did not comply with my advice, they spurned all my rebuke.
`Prov 1:31` Therefore they will eat from the fruit of their way, and they will be stuffed full of their own counsel.
`Prov 1:32` For the waywardness of the simpletons will kill them, and the careless ease of fools will destroy them.
`Prov 1:33` But the one who listens to me will live in security, and will be at ease from the dread of harm.
