# Proverbs 2

## Benefits of Wisdom
¶`Prov 2:1` My child, if you receive my words, and store up my commands inside yourself,
`Prov 2:2` by making your ear attentive to wisdom, and by turning your heart to understanding,
`Prov 2:3` indeed, if you call out for discernment – shout loudly for understanding –
`Prov 2:4` if you seek it like silver, and search for it like hidden treasure,
`Prov 2:5` then you will understand how to fear the Lord, and you will discover knowledge about God.
`Prov 2:6` For the Lord gives wisdom, and from his mouth comes knowledge and understanding.
`Prov 2:7` He stores up effective counsel for the upright, and is like a shield for those who live with integrity,
`Prov 2:8` to guard the paths of the righteous and to protect the way of his pious ones.
`Prov 2:9` Then you will understand righteousness and justice and equity – every good way.
`Prov 2:10` For wisdom will enter your heart, and moral knowledge will be attractive to you.
`Prov 2:11` Discretion will protect you, understanding will guard you,
`Prov 2:12` to deliver you from the way of the wicked, from those speaking perversity,
`Prov 2:13` who leave the upright paths to walk on the dark ways,
`Prov 2:14` who delight in doing evil, they rejoice in perverse evil;
`Prov 2:15` whose paths are morally crooked, and who are devious in their ways;
`Prov 2:16` to deliver you from the adulterous woman, from the loose woman who has flattered you with her words;
`Prov 2:17` who leaves the husband from her younger days, and has ignored her marriage covenant made before God.
`Prov 2:18` For she has set her house by death, and her paths by the place of the departed spirits.
`Prov 2:19` None who go in to her will return, nor will they reach the paths of life.
`Prov 2:20` So you will walk in the way of good people, and will keep on the paths of the righteous.
`Prov 2:21` For the upright will reside in the land, and those with integrity will remain in it,
`Prov 2:22` but the wicked will be removed from the land, and the treacherous will be torn away from it.
