# Proverbs 3

## Trust in the Lord
¶`Prov 3:1` My child, do not forget my teaching, but let your heart keep my commandments,
`Prov 3:2` for they will provide a long and full life, and well-being for you.
`Prov 3:3` Do not let mercy and truth leave you; bind them around your neck, write them on the tablet of your heart.
`Prov 3:4` Then you will find favor and good understanding, in the sight of God and people.
`Prov 3:5` Trust in the Lord with all your heart, and do not rely on your own understanding.
`Prov 3:6` Acknowledge him in all your ways, and he will make your paths straight.
`Prov 3:7` Do not be wise in your own estimation; fear the Lord and turn away from evil.
`Prov 3:8` This will bring healing to your body, and refreshment to your inner self.
`Prov 3:9` Honor the Lord from your wealth and from the first fruits of all your crops;
`Prov 3:10` then your barns will be filled completely, and your vats will overflow with new wine.
`Prov 3:11` My child, do not despise discipline from the Lord, and do not loathe his rebuke.
`Prov 3:12` For the Lord disciplines those he loves, just as a father disciplines the son in whom he delights.

## Wisdom's Value
¶`Prov 3:13` Blessed is the one who has found wisdom, and the one who obtains understanding.
`Prov 3:14` For her benefit is more profitable than silver, and her gain is better than gold.
`Prov 3:15` She is more precious than rubies, and none of the things you desire can compare with her.
`Prov 3:16` Long life is in her right hand; in her left hand are riches and honor.
`Prov 3:17` Her ways are very pleasant, and all her paths are peaceful.
`Prov 3:18` She is like a tree of life to those who grasp onto her, and everyone who takes hold of her will be blessed.
`Prov 3:19` By wisdom the Lord laid the foundation of the earth; he established the heavens by understanding.
`Prov 3:20` By his knowledge the primordial sea was broken open, so that the clouds drip down dew.
`Prov 3:21` My child, do not let them escape from your sight; safeguard sound wisdom and discretion.
`Prov 3:22` So they will become life for your soul, and grace around your neck.
`Prov 3:23` Then you will walk on your way with security, and you will not stumble.
`Prov 3:24` When you lie down you will not be filled with fear; when you lie down your sleep will be pleasant.
`Prov 3:25` Do not be afraid of sudden disaster, or when destruction overtakes the wicked;
`Prov 3:26` for the Lord will be the source of your confidence, and he will guard your foot from being caught in a trap.
`Prov 3:27` Do not withhold good from those who need it, when you have the ability to help.
`Prov 3:28` Do not say to your neighbor, “Go! Return tomorrow and I will give it,” when you have it with you at the time.
`Prov 3:29` Do not plot evil against your neighbor when he dwells by you unsuspectingly.
`Prov 3:30` Do not accuse anyone without legitimate cause, if he has not treated you wrongly.
`Prov 3:31` Do not envy a violent man, and do not choose any of his ways;
`Prov 3:32` for one who goes astray is an abomination to the Lord, but he reveals his intimate counsel to the upright.
`Prov 3:33` The Lord’s curse is on the household of the wicked, but he blesses the home of the righteous.
`Prov 3:34` With arrogant scoffers he is scornful, yet he shows favor to the humble.
`Prov 3:35` The wise inherit honor, but he holds fools up to public contempt.
