# Proverbs 4

## Path to Wisdom
¶`Prov 4:1` Listen, children, to a father’s instruction, and pay attention so that you may gain discernment.
`Prov 4:2` Because I hereby give you good instruction, do not forsake my teaching.
`Prov 4:3` When I was a son to my father, a tender only child before my mother,
`Prov 4:4` he taught me, and he said to me: “Let your heart lay hold of my words; keep my commands so that you will live.
`Prov 4:5` Acquire wisdom, acquire understanding; do not forget and do not turn aside from the words I speak.
`Prov 4:6` Do not forsake wisdom, and she will protect you; love her, and she will guard you.
`Prov 4:7` Wisdom is supreme – so acquire wisdom, and whatever you acquire, acquire understanding!
`Prov 4:8` Esteem her highly and she will exalt you; she will honor you if you embrace her.
`Prov 4:9` She will place a fair garland on your head; she will bestow a beautiful crown on you.”
`Prov 4:10` Listen, my child, and accept my words, so that the years of your life will be many.
`Prov 4:11` I hereby guide you in the way of wisdom and I lead you in upright paths.
`Prov 4:12` When you walk, your steps will not be hampered, and when you run, you will not stumble.
`Prov 4:13` Hold on to instruction, do not let it go; protect it, because it is your life.
`Prov 4:14` Do not enter the path of the wicked or walk in the way of those who are evil.
`Prov 4:15` Avoid it, do not go on it; turn away from it, and go on.
`Prov 4:16` For they cannot sleep unless they cause harm; they are robbed of sleep until they make someone stumble.
`Prov 4:17` Indeed they have eaten bread gained from wickedness and drink wine obtained from violence.
`Prov 4:18` But the path of the righteous is like the bright morning light, growing brighter and brighter until full day.
`Prov 4:19` The way of the wicked is like gloomy darkness; they do not know what they stumble over.
`Prov 4:20` My child, pay attention to my words; listen attentively to my sayings.
`Prov 4:21` Do not let them depart from your sight, guard them within your heart;
`Prov 4:22` for they are life to those who find them and healing to one’s entire body.
`Prov 4:23` Guard your heart with all vigilance, for from it are the sources of life.
`Prov 4:24` Remove perverse speech from your mouth; keep devious talk far from your lips.
`Prov 4:25` Let your eyes look directly in front of you and let your gaze look straight before you.
`Prov 4:26` Make the path for your feet level, so that all your ways may be established.
`Prov 4:27` Do not turn to the right or to the left; turn yourself away from evil.
