# Proverbs 5

## Avoid Sexual Immorality
¶[Prov 5:1] My child, be attentive to my wisdom, pay close attention to my understanding,
[Prov 5:2] in order to safeguard discretion, and that your lips may guard knowledge.
[Prov 5:3] For the lips of the adulterous woman drip honey, and her seductive words are smoother than olive oil,
[Prov 5:4] but in the end she is bitter as wormwood, sharp as a two-edged sword.
[Prov 5:5] Her feet go down to death; her steps lead straight to the grave.
[Prov 5:6] Lest she should make level the path leading to life, her paths have wandered, but she is not able to discern it.
[Prov 5:7] So now, children, listen to me; do not turn aside from the words I speak.
[Prov 5:8] Keep yourself far from her, and do not go near the door of her house,
[Prov 5:9] lest you give your vigor to others and your years to a cruel person,
[Prov 5:10] lest strangers devour your strength, and your labor benefit another man’s house.
[Prov 5:11] And at the end of your life you will groan when your flesh and your body are wasted away.
[Prov 5:12] And you will say, “How I hated discipline! My heart spurned reproof!
[Prov 5:13] For I did not obey my teachers and I did not heed my instructors.
[Prov 5:14] I almost came to complete ruin in the midst of the whole congregation!”
[Prov 5:15] Drink water from your own cistern and running water from your own well.
[Prov 5:16] Should your springs be dispersed outside, your streams of water in the wide plazas?
[Prov 5:17] Let them be for yourself alone, and not for strangers with you.
[Prov 5:18] May your fountain be blessed, and may you rejoice in the wife you married in your youth –
[Prov 5:19] a loving doe, a graceful deer; may her breasts satisfy you at all times, may you be captivated by her love always.
[Prov 5:20] But why should you be captivated, my son, by an adulteress, and embrace the bosom of a different woman?
[Prov 5:21] For the ways of a person are in front of the Lord’s eyes, and the Lord weighs all that person’s paths.
[Prov 5:22] The wicked will be captured by his own iniquities, and he will be held by the cords of his own sin.
[Prov 5:23] He will die because there was no discipline; because of the greatness of his folly he will reel.
