# Proverbs 7

## The Call of Wisdom
¶[Prov 7:1] My child, devote yourself to my words and store up my commands inside yourself.
[Prov 7:2] Keep my commands so that you may live, and obey my instruction as your most prized possession.
[Prov 7:3] Bind them on your forearm; write them on the tablet of your heart.
[Prov 7:4] Say to wisdom, “You are my sister,” and call understanding a close relative,
[Prov 7:5] so that they may keep you from the adulterous woman, from the loose woman who has flattered you with her words.
[Prov 7:6] For at the window of my house through my window lattice I looked out
[Prov 7:7] and I saw among the naive – I discerned among the youths – a young man who lacked sense.
[Prov 7:8] He was passing by the street near her corner, making his way along the road to her house
[Prov 7:9] in the twilight, the evening, in the dark of the night.
[Prov 7:10] Suddenly a woman came out to meet him! She was dressed like a prostitute and with secret intent.
[Prov 7:11] (She is loud and rebellious, she does not remain at home –
[Prov 7:12] at one time outside, at another in the wide plazas, and by every corner she lies in wait.)
[Prov 7:13] So she grabbed him and kissed him, and with a bold expression she said to him,
[Prov 7:14] “I have meat from my peace offerings at home; today I have fulfilled my vows!
[Prov 7:15] That is why I came out to meet you, to look for you, and I found you!
[Prov 7:16] I have spread my bed with elegant coverings, with richly colored fabric from Egypt.
[Prov 7:17] I have perfumed my bed with myrrh, aloes, and cinnamon.
[Prov 7:18] Come, let’s drink deeply of lovemaking until morning, let’s delight ourselves with love’s pleasures.
[Prov 7:19] For my husband is not at home; he has gone on a journey of some distance.
[Prov 7:20] He has taken a bag of money with him; he will not return until the end of the month.”
[Prov 7:21] She turned him aside with her persuasions; with her smooth talk she was enticing him along.
[Prov 7:22] Suddenly he was going after her like an ox that goes to the slaughter, like a stag prancing into a trapper’s snare
[Prov 7:23] till an arrow pierces his liver – like a bird hurrying into a trap, and he does not know that it will cost him his life.
[Prov 7:24] So now, sons, listen to me, and pay attention to the words I speak.
[Prov 7:25] Do not let your heart turn aside to her ways – do not wander into her pathways;
[Prov 7:26] for she has brought down many fatally wounded, and all those she has slain are many.
[Prov 7:27] Her house is the way to the grave, going down to the chambers of death.
