# Proverbs 8

## Wisdom's Invitation
¶[Prov 8:1] Does not wisdom call out? Does not understanding raise her voice?
[Prov 8:2] At the top of the prominent places along the way, at the intersection of the paths she has taken her stand;
[Prov 8:3] beside the gates opening into the city, at the entrance of the doorways she cries out:
[Prov 8:4] “To you, O people, I call out, and my voice calls to all mankind.
[Prov 8:5] You who are naive, discern wisdom! And you fools, understand discernment!
[Prov 8:6] Listen, for I will speak excellent things, and my lips will utter what is right.
[Prov 8:7] For my mouth speaks truth, and my lips hate wickedness.
[Prov 8:8] All the words of my mouth are righteous; there is nothing in them twisted or crooked.
[Prov 8:9] All of them are clear to the discerning and upright to those who find knowledge.
[Prov 8:10] Receive my instruction rather than silver, and knowledge rather than choice gold.
[Prov 8:11] For wisdom is better than rubies, and desirable things cannot be compared to her.
[Prov 8:12] “I, wisdom, have dwelt with prudence, and I find knowledge and discretion.
[Prov 8:13] The fear of the Lord is to hate evil; I hate arrogant pride and the evil way and perverse utterances.
[Prov 8:14] Counsel and sound wisdom belong to me; I possess understanding and might.
[Prov 8:15] By me kings reign, and by me potentates decree righteousness;
[Prov 8:16] by me princes rule, as well as nobles and all righteous judges.
[Prov 8:17] I will love those who love me, and those who seek me diligently will find me.
[Prov 8:18] Riches and honor are with me, long-lasting wealth and righteousness.
[Prov 8:19] My fruit is better than the purest gold, and my harvest is better than choice silver.
[Prov 8:20] I walk in the path of righteousness, in the pathway of justice,
[Prov 8:21] that I may cause those who love me to inherit wealth, and that I may fill their treasuries.

## Wisdom's Foundation
¶[Prov 8:22] The Lord created me as the beginning of his works, before his deeds of long ago.
[Prov 8:23] From eternity I have been fashioned, from the beginning, from before the world existed.
[Prov 8:24] When there were no deep oceans I was born, when there were no springs overflowing with water;
[Prov 8:25] before the mountains were set in place – before the hills – I was born,
[Prov 8:26] before he made the earth and its fields, or the top soil of the world.
[Prov 8:27] When he established the heavens, I was there; when he marked out the horizon over the face of the deep,
[Prov 8:28] when he established the clouds above, when he secured the fountains of the deep,
[Prov 8:29] when he gave the sea his decree that the waters should not pass over his command, when he marked out the foundations of the earth,
[Prov 8:30] then I was beside him as a master craftsman, and I was his delight day by day, rejoicing before him at all times,
[Prov 8:31] rejoicing in the habitable part of his earth, and delighting in its people.
[Prov 8:32] “So now, children, listen to me; blessed are those who keep my ways.
[Prov 8:33] Listen to my instruction so that you may be wise, and do not neglect it.
[Prov 8:34] Blessed is the one who listens to me, watching at my doors day by day, waiting beside my doorway.
[Prov 8:35] For the one who finds me has found life and received favor from the Lord.
[Prov 8:36] But the one who misses me brings harm to himself; all who hate me love death.”
