# Proverbs 9

## Accepting Wisdom
¶`Prov 9:1` Wisdom has built her house; she has carved out its seven pillars.
`Prov 9:2` She has prepared her meat, she has mixed her wine; she also has arranged her table.
`Prov 9:3` She has sent out her female servants; she calls out on the highest places of the city.
`Prov 9:4` “Whoever is naive, let him turn in here,” To those who lack understanding, she has said,
`Prov 9:5` “Come, eat some of my food, and drink some of the wine I have mixed.
`Prov 9:6` Abandon your foolish ways so that you may live, and proceed in the way of understanding.”
`Prov 9:7` Whoever corrects a mocker is asking for insult; whoever reproves a wicked person receives abuse.
`Prov 9:8` Do not reprove a mocker or he will hate you; reprove a wise person and he will love you.
`Prov 9:9` Give instruction to a wise person, and he will become wiser still; teach a righteous person and he will add to his learning.
`Prov 9:10` The beginning of wisdom is to fear the Lord, and acknowledging the Holy One is understanding.
`Prov 9:11` For because of me your days will be many, and years will be added to your life.
`Prov 9:12` If you are wise, you are wise to your own advantage, but if you have mocked, you alone must bear it.
`Prov 9:13` The woman called Folly is brash, she is naive and does not know anything.
`Prov 9:14` And she has sat down at the door of her house, on a seat at the highest point of the city,
`Prov 9:15` calling out to those who are passing by her in the way, who go straight on their way.
`Prov 9:16` “Whoever is naive, let him turn in here,” To those who lack understanding she has said,
`Prov 9:17` “Stolen waters are sweet, and food obtained in secret is pleasant!”
`Prov 9:18` But they do not realize that the dead are there, that her guests are in the depths of the grave.
