# Proverbs 10

## Righteousness vs. Wickedness
¶`Prov 10:1` The Proverbs of Solomon: A wise child makes a father rejoice, but a foolish child is a grief to his mother.
`Prov 10:2` Treasures gained by wickedness do not profit, but righteousness delivers from death.
`Prov 10:3` The Lord satisfies the appetite of the righteous, but he thwarts the craving of the wicked.
`Prov 10:4` The one who is lazy becomes poor, but the one who works diligently becomes wealthy.
`Prov 10:5` The one who gathers crops in the summer is a wise son, but the one who sleeps during harvest is a shameful son.
`Prov 10:6` Blessings are on the head of the righteous, but the speech of the wicked conceals violence.
`Prov 10:7` The memory of the righteous is a blessing, but the reputation of the wicked will rot.
`Prov 10:8` The wise person accepts instructions, but the one who speaks foolishness will come to ruin.
`Prov 10:9` The one who conducts himself in integrity will live securely, but the one who behaves perversely will be found out.
`Prov 10:10` The one who winks his eye causes trouble, and the one who speaks foolishness will come to ruin.
`Prov 10:11` The speech of the righteous is a fountain of life, but the speech of the wicked conceals violence.
`Prov 10:12` Hatred stirs up dissension, but love covers all transgressions.
`Prov 10:13` Wisdom is found in the words of the discerning person, but the one who lacks sense will be disciplined.
`Prov 10:14` Those who are wise store up knowledge, but foolish speech leads to imminent destruction.
`Prov 10:15` The wealth of a rich person is like a fortified city, but the poor are brought to ruin by their poverty.
`Prov 10:16` The reward which the righteous receive is life; the recompense which the wicked receive is judgment.
`Prov 10:17` The one who heeds instruction is on the way to life, but the one who rejects rebuke goes astray.
`Prov 10:18` The one who conceals hatred utters lies, and the one who spreads slander is certainly a fool.
`Prov 10:19` When words abound, transgression is inevitable, but the one who restrains his words is wise.
`Prov 10:20` What the righteous say is like the best silver, but what the wicked think is of little value.
`Prov 10:21` The teaching of the righteous feeds many, but fools die for lack of sense.
`Prov 10:22` The blessing from the Lord makes a person rich, and he adds no sorrow to it.
`Prov 10:23` Carrying out a wicked scheme is enjoyable to a fool, and so is wisdom for the one who has discernment.
`Prov 10:24` What the wicked fears will come on him; what the righteous desire will be granted.
`Prov 10:25` When the storm passes through, the wicked are swept away, but the righteous are an everlasting foundation.
`Prov 10:26` Like vinegar to the teeth and like smoke to the eyes, so is the sluggard to those who send him.
`Prov 10:27` Fearing the Lord prolongs life, but the life span of the wicked will be shortened.
`Prov 10:28` The hope of the righteous is joy, but the expectation of the wicked perishes.
`Prov 10:29` The way of the Lord is like a stronghold for the upright, but it is destruction to evildoers.
`Prov 10:30` The righteous will never be moved, but the wicked will not inhabit the land.
`Prov 10:31` The speech of the righteous bears the fruit of wisdom, but the one who speaks perversion will be destroyed.
`Prov 10:32` The lips of the righteous know what is pleasing, but the speech of the wicked is perverse.
