# Proverbs 11

## Speech, Friendships, and Wealth
¶`Prov 11:1` The Lord abhors dishonest scales, but an accurate weight is his delight.
`Prov 11:2` After pride came, disgrace followed; but wisdom came with humility.
`Prov 11:3` The integrity of the upright guides them, but the crookedness of the treacherous destroys them.
`Prov 11:4` Wealth does not profit in the day of wrath, but righteousness delivers from death.
`Prov 11:5` The righteousness of the blameless will make their way smooth, but the wicked will fall through their own wickedness.
`Prov 11:6` The righteousness of the upright will deliver them, but the treacherous will be ensnared by their own desires.
`Prov 11:7` When a wicked person dies, his expectation perishes, and hope based on power has perished.
`Prov 11:8` A righteous person was delivered out of trouble, then a wicked person took his place.
`Prov 11:9` With his speech the godless person destroys his neighbor, but by knowledge the righteous will be delivered.
`Prov 11:10` When the righteous do well, the city rejoices; when the wicked perish, there is joy.
`Prov 11:11` A city is exalted by the blessing provided from the upright, but it is destroyed by the counsel of the wicked.
`Prov 11:12` The one who denounces his neighbor lacks sense, but a discerning person keeps silent.
`Prov 11:13` The one who goes about slandering others reveals secrets, but the one who is trustworthy conceals a matter.
`Prov 11:14` When there is no guidance a nation falls, but there is success in the abundance of counselors.
`Prov 11:15` The one who has put up security for a stranger will surely have trouble, but whoever avoids shaking hands is secure.
`Prov 11:16` A generous woman gains honor, and ruthless men seize wealth.
`Prov 11:17` A kind person benefits himself, but a cruel person brings himself trouble.
`Prov 11:18` The wicked person earns deceitful wages, but the one who sows righteousness reaps a genuine reward.
`Prov 11:19` True righteousness leads to life, but the one who pursues evil pursues it to his own death.
`Prov 11:20` The Lord abhors those who are perverse in heart, but those who are blameless in their ways are his delight.
`Prov 11:21` Be assured that the evil person will not be unpunished, but the descendants of the righteous have escaped harm.
`Prov 11:22` Like a gold ring in a pig’s snout is a beautiful woman who rejects discretion.
`Prov 11:23` The desire of the righteous is only good, but the expectation of the wicked is wrath.
`Prov 11:24` One person is generous and yet grows more wealthy, but another withholds more than he should and comes to poverty.
`Prov 11:25` A generous person will be enriched, and the one who provides water for others will himself be satisfied.
`Prov 11:26` People will curse the one who withholds grain, but they will praise the one who sells it.
`Prov 11:27` The one who diligently seeks good seeks favor, but the one who searches for evil – it will come to him.
`Prov 11:28` The one who trusts in his riches will fall, but the righteous will flourish like a green leaf.
`Prov 11:29` The one who troubles his family will inherit nothing, and the fool will be a servant to the wise person.
`Prov 11:30` The fruit of the righteous is like a tree producing life, and the one who wins souls is wise.
`Prov 11:31` If the righteous are recompensed on earth, how much more the wicked sinner!
