# Proverbs 12

## Trusting in the Lord
¶`Prov 12:1` The one who loves discipline loves knowledge, but the one who hates reproof is stupid.
`Prov 12:2` A good person obtains favor from the Lord, but the Lord condemns a person with wicked schemes.
`Prov 12:3` No one can be established through wickedness, but a righteous root cannot be moved.
`Prov 12:4` A noble wife is the crown of her husband, but the wife who acts shamefully is like rottenness in his bones.
`Prov 12:5` The plans of the righteous are just; the counsels of the wicked are deceitful.
`Prov 12:6` The words of the wicked lie in wait to shed innocent blood, but the words of the upright will deliver them.
`Prov 12:7` The wicked are overthrown and perish, but the righteous household will stand.
`Prov 12:8` A person will be praised in accordance with his wisdom, but the one with a bewildered mind will be despised.
`Prov 12:9` Better is a person of humble standing who works for himself, than one who pretends to be somebody important yet has no food.
`Prov 12:10` A righteous person cares for the life of his animal, but even the most compassionate acts of the wicked are cruel.
`Prov 12:11` The one who works his field will have plenty of food, but whoever chases daydreams lacks sense.
`Prov 12:12` The wicked person has desired the stronghold of the wicked, but the root of the righteous will yield fruit.
`Prov 12:13` The evil person is ensnared by the transgression of his speech, but the righteous person escapes out of trouble.
`Prov 12:14` A person will be satisfied with good from the fruit of his words, and the work of his hands will be rendered to him.
`Prov 12:15` The way of a fool is right in his own opinion, but the one who listens to advice is wise.
`Prov 12:16` A fool’s annoyance is known at once, but the prudent conceals dishonor.
`Prov 12:17` The faithful witness tells what is right, but a false witness speaks deceit.
`Prov 12:18` Speaking recklessly is like the thrusts of a sword, but the words of the wise bring healing.
`Prov 12:19` The one who tells the truth will endure forever, but the one who lies will last only for a moment.
`Prov 12:20` Deceit is in the heart of those who plot evil, but those who promote peace have joy.
`Prov 12:21` No harm will be directed at the righteous, but the wicked are filled with calamity.
`Prov 12:22` The Lord abhors a person who lies, but those who deal truthfully are his delight.
`Prov 12:23` The shrewd person conceals knowledge, but foolish people proclaim folly.
`Prov 12:24` The diligent person will rule, but the slothful will be put to forced labor.
`Prov 12:25` Anxiety in a person’s heart weighs him down, but an encouraging word brings him joy.
`Prov 12:26` The righteous person is cautious in his friendship, but the way of the wicked leads them astray.
`Prov 12:27` The lazy person does not roast his prey, but personal possessions are precious to the diligent.
`Prov 12:28` In the path of righteousness there is life, but another path leads to death.
