# Proverbs 13

## Diligence and Laziness
¶`Prov 13:1` A wise son accepts his father’s discipline, but a scoffer has never listened to rebuke.
`Prov 13:2` From the fruit of his speech a person eats good things, but the treacherous desire the fruit of violence.
`Prov 13:3` The one who guards his words guards his life; whoever is talkative will come to ruin.
`Prov 13:4` The appetite of the sluggard craves but gets nothing, but the desire of the diligent will be abundantly satisfied.
`Prov 13:5` The righteous person will reject anything false, but the wicked person will act in shameful disgrace.
`Prov 13:6` Righteousness guards the one who lives with integrity, but wickedness overthrows the sinner.
`Prov 13:7` There is one who pretends to be rich and yet has nothing; another pretends to be poor and yet possesses great wealth.
`Prov 13:8` The ransom of a person’s life is his wealth, thus the poor person has never heard a threat.
`Prov 13:9` The light of the righteous shines brightly, but the lamp of the wicked goes out.
`Prov 13:10` With pride comes only contention, but wisdom is with the well-advised.
`Prov 13:11` Wealth gained quickly will dwindle away, but the one who gathers it little by little will become rich.
`Prov 13:12` Hope deferred makes the heart sick, but a longing fulfilled is like a tree of life.
`Prov 13:13` The one who despises instruction will pay the penalty, but whoever esteems direction will be rewarded.
`Prov 13:14` Instruction from the wise is like a life-giving fountain, to turn a person from deadly snares.
`Prov 13:15` Keen insight wins favor, but the conduct of the treacherous ends in destruction.
`Prov 13:16` Every shrewd person acts with knowledge, but a fool displays his folly.
`Prov 13:17` An unreliable messenger falls into trouble, but a faithful envoy brings healing.
`Prov 13:18` The one who neglects discipline ends up in poverty and shame, but the one who accepts reproof is honored.
`Prov 13:19` A desire fulfilled will be sweet to the soul, but fools abhor turning away from evil.
`Prov 13:20` The one who associates with the wise grows wise, but a companion of fools suffers harm.
`Prov 13:21` Calamity pursues sinners, but prosperity rewards the righteous.
`Prov 13:22` A good person leaves an inheritance for his grandchildren, but the wealth of a sinner is stored up for the righteous.
`Prov 13:23` Abundant food may come from the field of the poor, but it is swept away by injustice.
`Prov 13:24` The one who spares his rod hates his child, but the one who loves his child is diligent in disciplining him.
`Prov 13:25` The righteous has enough food to satisfy his appetite, but the belly of the wicked will be empty.
