# Proverbs 14

## Wise Living
¶`Prov 14:1` Every wise woman has built her household, but a foolish woman tears it down with her own hands.
`Prov 14:2` The one who walks in his uprightness fears the Lord, but the one who is perverted in his ways despises him.
`Prov 14:3` In the speech of a fool is a rod for his back, but the words of the wise protect them.
`Prov 14:4` Where there are no oxen, the feeding trough is clean, but an abundant harvest is produced by strong oxen.
`Prov 14:5` A truthful witness does not lie, but a false witness breathes out lies.
`Prov 14:6` The scorner sought wisdom–there was none, but understanding was easy for a discerning person.
`Prov 14:7` Walk abreast with a foolish person, and you do not understand wise counsel.
`Prov 14:8` The wisdom of the shrewd person is to discern his way, but the folly of fools is deception.
`Prov 14:9` Fools mock at reparation, but among the upright there is favor.
`Prov 14:10` The heart knows its own bitterness, and with its joy no one else can share.
`Prov 14:11` The household of the wicked will be destroyed, but the tent of the upright will flourish.
`Prov 14:12` There is a way that seems right to a person, but its end is the way that leads to death.
`Prov 14:13` Even in laughter the heart may ache, and the end of joy may be grief.
`Prov 14:14` The backslider will be paid back from his own ways, but a good person will be rewarded for his.
`Prov 14:15` A naive person will believe anything, but the shrewd person discerns his steps.
`Prov 14:16` A wise person is cautious and turns from evil, but a fool throws off restraint and is overconfident.
`Prov 14:17` A person who has a quick temper will do foolish things, and a person with crafty schemes will be hated.
`Prov 14:18` The naive have inherited folly, but the shrewd will be crowned with knowledge.
`Prov 14:19` Bad people have bowed before good people, and wicked people have bowed at the gates of someone righteous.
`Prov 14:20` A poor person will be disliked even by his neighbors, but those who love the rich are many.
`Prov 14:21` The one who despises his neighbor sins, but whoever is kind to the needy is blessed.
`Prov 14:22` Do not those who devise evil go astray? But those who plan good exhibit faithful covenant love.
`Prov 14:23` In all hard work there is profit, but merely talking about it only brings poverty.
`Prov 14:24` The crown of the wise is their riches, but the folly of fools is folly.
`Prov 14:25` A truthful witness rescues lives, but one who testifies falsely betrays them.
`Prov 14:26` In the fear of the Lord one has strong confidence, and it will be a refuge for his children.
`Prov 14:27` The fear of the Lord is like a life-giving fountain, to turn people from deadly snares.
`Prov 14:28` A king’s glory is the abundance of people, but the lack of subjects is the ruin of a ruler.
`Prov 14:29` Someone with great understanding is slow to anger, but the one who has a quick temper exalts folly.
`Prov 14:30` A tranquil spirit revives the body, but envy is rottenness to the bones.
`Prov 14:31` The one who oppresses the poor has insulted his Creator, but whoever honors him shows favor to the needy.
`Prov 14:32` An evil person will be thrown down through his wickedness, but a righteous person takes refuge in his integrity.
`Prov 14:33` Wisdom rests in the heart of the discerning; it is not known in the inner parts of fools.
`Prov 14:34` Righteousness exalts a nation, but sin is a disgrace to any people.
`Prov 14:35` The king shows favor to a wise servant, but his wrath falls on one who acts shamefully.
