# Proverbs 15

## Fools and Wise People
¶[Prov 15:1] A gentle response turns away anger, but a harsh word stirs up wrath.
[Prov 15:2] The tongue of the wise treats knowledge correctly, but the mouth of the fool spouts out folly.
[Prov 15:3] The eyes of the Lord are in every place, keeping watch on those who are evil and those who are good.
[Prov 15:4] Speech that heals is like a life-giving tree, but a perverse speech breaks the spirit.
[Prov 15:5] A fool rejects his father’s discipline, but whoever heeds reproof shows good sense.
[Prov 15:6] In the house of the righteous is abundant wealth, but the income of the wicked will be ruined.
[Prov 15:7] The lips of the wise spread knowledge, but not so the heart of fools.
[Prov 15:8] The Lord abhors the sacrifice of the wicked, but the prayer of the upright pleases him.
[Prov 15:9] The Lord abhors the way of the wicked, but he will love those who pursue righteousness.
[Prov 15:10] Severe discipline is for the one who abandons the way; the one who hates reproof will die.
[Prov 15:11] Death and Destruction are before the Lord – how much more the hearts of humans!
[Prov 15:12] The scorner will not love one who corrects him; he will not go to the wise.
[Prov 15:13] A joyful heart makes the face cheerful, but by a painful heart the spirit is broken.
[Prov 15:14] The discerning mind seeks knowledge, but the mouth of fools feeds on folly.
[Prov 15:15] All the days of the afflicted are bad, but one with a cheerful heart has a continual feast.
[Prov 15:16] Better is little with the fear of the Lord than great wealth and turmoil with it.
[Prov 15:17] Better a meal of vegetables where there is love than a fattened ox where there is hatred.
[Prov 15:18] A quick-tempered person stirs up dissension, but one who is slow to anger calms a quarrel.
[Prov 15:19] The way of the sluggard is like a hedge of thorns, but the path of the upright is like a highway.
[Prov 15:20] A wise child brings joy to his father, but a foolish person despises his mother.
[Prov 15:21] Folly is a joy to one who lacks sense, but one who has understanding follows an upright course.
[Prov 15:22] Plans fail when there is no counsel, but with abundant advisers they are established.
[Prov 15:23] A person has joy in giving an appropriate answer, and a word at the right time – how good it is!
[Prov 15:24] The path of life is upward for the wise person, to keep him from going downward to Sheol.
[Prov 15:25] The Lord tears down the house of the proud, but he maintains the boundaries of the widow.
[Prov 15:26] The Lord abhors the plans of the wicked, but pleasant words are pure.
[Prov 15:27] The one who is greedy for gain troubles his household, but whoever hates bribes will live.
[Prov 15:28] The heart of the righteous considers how to answer, but the mouth of the wicked pours out evil things.
[Prov 15:29] The Lord is far from the wicked, but he hears the prayer of the righteous.
[Prov 15:30] A bright look brings joy to the heart, and good news gives health to the body.
[Prov 15:31] The person who hears the reproof that leads to life is at home among the wise.
[Prov 15:32] The one who refuses correction despises himself, but whoever listens to reproof acquires understanding.
[Prov 15:33] The fear of the Lord provides wise instruction, and before honor comes humility.
