# Proverbs 16

## Discipline and Character
¶[Prov 16:1] The intentions of the heart belong to a man, but the answer of the tongue comes from the Lord.
[Prov 16:2] All a person’s ways seem right in his own opinion, but the Lord evaluates the motives.
[Prov 16:3] Commit your works to the Lord, and your plans will be established.
[Prov 16:4] The Lord has worked everything for his own ends – even the wicked for the day of disaster.
[Prov 16:5] The Lord abhors every arrogant person; rest assured that they will not go unpunished.
[Prov 16:6] Through loyal love and truth iniquity is appeased; through fearing the Lord one avoids evil.
[Prov 16:7] When a person’s ways are pleasing to the Lord, he even reconciles his enemies to himself.
[Prov 16:8] Better to have a little with righteousness than to have abundant income without justice.
[Prov 16:9] A person plans his course, but the Lord directs his steps.
[Prov 16:10] The divine verdict is in the words of the king, his pronouncements must not act treacherously against justice.
[Prov 16:11] Honest scales and balances are from the Lord; all the weights in the bag are his handiwork.
[Prov 16:12] Doing wickedness is an abomination to kings, because a throne is established in righteousness.
[Prov 16:13] The delight of a king is righteous counsel, and he will love the one who speaks uprightly.
[Prov 16:14] A king’s wrath is like a messenger of death, but a wise person appeases it.
[Prov 16:15] In the light of the king’s face there is life, and his favor is like the clouds of the spring rain.
[Prov 16:16] How much better it is to acquire wisdom than gold; to acquire understanding is more desirable than silver.
[Prov 16:17] The highway of the upright is to turn away from evil; the one who guards his way safeguards his life.
[Prov 16:18] Pride goes before destruction, and a haughty spirit before a fall.
[Prov 16:19] It is better to be lowly in spirit with the afflicted than to share the spoils with the proud.
[Prov 16:20] The one who deals wisely in a matter will find success, and blessed is the one who trusts in the Lord.
[Prov 16:21] The one who is wise in heart is called discerning, and kind speech increases persuasiveness.
[Prov 16:22] Insight is like a life-giving fountain to the one who possesses it, but folly leads to the discipline of fools.
[Prov 16:23] A wise person’s heart makes his speech wise and it adds persuasiveness to his words.
[Prov 16:24] Pleasant words are like a honeycomb, sweet to the soul and healing to the bones.
[Prov 16:25] There is a way that seems right to a person, but its end is the way that leads to death.
[Prov 16:26] A laborer’s appetite has labored for him, for his hunger has pressed him to work.
[Prov 16:27] A wicked scoundrel digs up evil, and his slander is like a scorching fire.
[Prov 16:28] A perverse person spreads dissension, and a gossip separates the closest friends.
[Prov 16:29] A violent person entices his neighbor, and then leads him down a path that is terrible.
[Prov 16:30] The one who winks his eyes devises perverse things, and one who compresses his lips has accomplished evil.
[Prov 16:31] Gray hair is like a crown of glory; it is attained in the path of righteousness.
[Prov 16:32] Better to be slow to anger than to be a mighty warrior, and one who controls his temper is better than one who captures a city.
[Prov 16:33] The dice are thrown into the lap, but their every decision is from the Lord.
