# Proverbs 18

## Conflict and Relationships
¶`Prov 18:1` One who has isolated himself seeks his own desires; he rejects all sound judgment.
`Prov 18:2` A fool takes no pleasure in understanding but only in disclosing what is on his mind.
`Prov 18:3` When a wicked person arrives, contempt shows up with him, and with shame comes a reproach.
`Prov 18:4` The words of a person’s mouth are like deep waters, and the fountain of wisdom is like a flowing brook.
`Prov 18:5` It is terrible to show partiality to the wicked, by depriving a righteous man of justice.
`Prov 18:6` The lips of a fool enter into strife, and his mouth invites a flogging.
`Prov 18:7` The mouth of a fool is his ruin, and his lips are a snare for his life.
`Prov 18:8` The words of a gossip are like choice morsels; and they have gone down into the person’s innermost being.
`Prov 18:9` The one who is slack in his work is a brother to one who destroys.
`Prov 18:10` The name of the Lord is like a strong tower; the righteous person runs to it and is set safely on high.
`Prov 18:11` The wealth of a rich person is like a strong city, and it is like a high wall in his imagination.
`Prov 18:12` Before destruction the heart of a person is proud, but humility comes before honor.
`Prov 18:13` The one who gives an answer before he listens – that is his folly and his shame.
`Prov 18:14` A person’s spirit sustains him through sickness – but who can bear a crushed spirit?
`Prov 18:15` The discerning person acquires knowledge, and the wise person seeks knowledge.
`Prov 18:16` A person’s gift makes room for him, and leads him before important people.
`Prov 18:17` The first to state his case seems right, until his opponent begins to cross-examine him.
`Prov 18:18` A toss of a coin ends disputes, and settles the issue between strong opponents.
`Prov 18:19` A relative offended is harder to reach than a strong city, and disputes are like the barred gates of a fortified citadel.
`Prov 18:20` From the fruit of a person’s mouth his stomach will be satisfied, with the product of his lips he will be satisfied.
`Prov 18:21` Death and life are in the power of the tongue, and those who love its use will eat its fruit.
`Prov 18:22` The one who has found a good wife has found what goodness is, and obtained a delightful gift from the Lord.
`Prov 18:23` A poor person makes supplications, but a rich man answers harshly.
`Prov 18:24` There are companions who harm one another, but there is a friend who sticks closer than a brother.
