# Proverbs 19

## Speech and Anxieties
¶[Prov 19:1] Better is a poor person who walks in his integrity than one who is perverse in his speech and is a fool.
[Prov 19:2] It is dangerous to have zeal without knowledge, and the one who acts hastily makes poor choices.
[Prov 19:3] A person’s folly subverts his way, and his heart rages against the Lord.
[Prov 19:4] Wealth adds many friends, but a poor person is separated from his friend.
[Prov 19:5] A false witness will not go unpunished, and the one who spouts out lies will not escape punishment.
[Prov 19:6] Many people entreat the favor of a generous person, and everyone is the friend of the person who gives gifts.
[Prov 19:7] All the relatives of a poor person hate him; how much more do his friends avoid him – one who chases words, which are nothing.
[Prov 19:8] The one who acquires understanding loves himself; the one who preserves understanding will prosper.
[Prov 19:9] A false witness will not go unpunished, and the one who spouts out lies will perish.
[Prov 19:10] Luxury is not appropriate for a fool; how much less for a servant to rule over princes!
[Prov 19:11] A person’s wisdom has made him slow to anger, and it is his glory to overlook an offense.
[Prov 19:12] A king’s wrath is like the roar of a lion, but his favor is like dew on the grass.
[Prov 19:13] A foolish child is the ruin of his father, and a contentious wife is like a constant dripping.
[Prov 19:14] A house and wealth are inherited from parents, but a prudent wife is from the Lord.
[Prov 19:15] Laziness brings on a deep sleep, and the idle person will go hungry.
[Prov 19:16] The one who obeys commandments guards his life; the one who despises his ways will die.
[Prov 19:17] The one who is gracious to the poor lends to the Lord, and the Lord will repay him for his good deed.
[Prov 19:18] Discipline your child, for there is hope, but do not set your heart on causing his death.
[Prov 19:19] A person with great anger bears the penalty, but if you deliver him from it once, you will have to do it again.
[Prov 19:20] Listen to advice and receive discipline, that you may become wise by the end of your life.
[Prov 19:21] There are many plans in a person’s mind, but it is the counsel of the Lord which will stand.
[Prov 19:22] What is desirable for a person is to show loyal love, and a poor person is better than a liar.
[Prov 19:23] Fearing the Lord leads to life, and one who does so will live satisfied; he will not be afflicted by calamity.
[Prov 19:24] The sluggard has plunged his hand into the dish, and he will not even bring it back to his mouth!
[Prov 19:25] Flog a scorner, and as a result the simpleton will learn prudence; correct a discerning person, and as a result he will understand knowledge.
[Prov 19:26] The one who robs his father and chases away his mother is a son who brings shame and disgrace.
[Prov 19:27] If you stop listening to instruction, my child, you will stray from the words of knowledge.
[Prov 19:28] A crooked witness scorns justice, and the mouth of the wicked devours iniquity.
[Prov 19:29] Penalties have been prepared for scorners, and floggings for the backs of fools.
