# Proverbs 20

## Wisdom, Foolishness, and Relationships
¶[Prov 20:1] Wine is a mocker and strong drink is a brawler; whoever goes astray by them is not wise.
[Prov 20:2] The king’s terrifying anger is like the roar of a lion; whoever provokes him sins against himself.
[Prov 20:3] It is an honor for a person to cease from strife, but every fool quarrels.
[Prov 20:4] The sluggard will not plow during the planting season, so at harvest time he asks for grain but has nothing.
[Prov 20:5] Counsel in a person’s heart is like deep water, but an understanding person draws it out.
[Prov 20:6] Many people profess their loyalty, but a faithful person – who can find?
[Prov 20:7] The righteous person behaves in integrity; blessed are his children after him.
[Prov 20:8] A king sitting on the throne to judge separates out all evil with his eyes.
[Prov 20:9] Who can say, “I have kept my heart clean; I am pure from my sin”?
[Prov 20:10] Diverse weights and diverse measures – the Lord abhors both of them.
[Prov 20:11] Even a young man is known by his actions, whether his activity is pure and whether it is right.
[Prov 20:12] The ear that hears and the eye that sees – the Lord has made them both.
[Prov 20:13] Do not love sleep, lest you become impoverished; open your eyes so that you might be satisfied with food.
[Prov 20:14] “It’s worthless! It’s worthless!” says the buyer, but when he goes on his way, he boasts.
[Prov 20:15] There is gold, and an abundance of rubies, but words of knowledge are like a precious jewel.
[Prov 20:16] Take a man’s garment when he has given security for a stranger, and hold him in pledge on behalf of strangers.
[Prov 20:17] Bread gained by deceit tastes sweet to a person, but afterward his mouth will be filled with gravel.
[Prov 20:18] Plans are established by counsel, so make war with guidance.
[Prov 20:19] The one who goes about gossiping reveals secrets; therefore do not associate with someone who is always opening his mouth.
[Prov 20:20] The one who curses his father and his mother, his lamp will be extinguished in the blackest darkness.
[Prov 20:21] An inheritance gained easily in the beginning will not be blessed in the end.
[Prov 20:22] Do not say, “I will pay back evil!” Wait for the Lord, so that he may vindicate you.
[Prov 20:23] The Lord abhors differing weights, and dishonest scales are wicked.
[Prov 20:24] The steps of a person are ordained by the Lord – so how can anyone understand his own way?
[Prov 20:25] It is a snare for a person to rashly cry, “Holy!” and only afterward to consider what he has vowed.
[Prov 20:26] A wise king separates out the wicked; he turns the threshing wheel over them.
[Prov 20:27] The human spirit is like the lamp of the Lord, searching all his innermost parts.
[Prov 20:28] Loyal love and truth preserve a king, and his throne is upheld by loyal love.
[Prov 20:29] The glory of young men is their strength, and the splendor of old men is gray hair.
[Prov 20:30] Beatings and wounds cleanse away evil, and floggings cleanse the innermost being.
