# Proverbs 22

## Wise Sayings
¶[Prov 22:1] A good name is to be chosen rather than great wealth, good favor more than silver or gold.
[Prov 22:2] The rich and the poor are met together; the Lord is the Creator of them both.
[Prov 22:3] A shrewd person saw danger and hid himself, but the naive passed on by and paid for it.
[Prov 22:4] The reward for humility and fearing the Lord is riches and honor and life.
[Prov 22:5] Thorns and snares are in the path of the perverse, but the one who guards himself keeps far from them.
[Prov 22:6] Train a child in the way that he should go, and when he is old he will not turn from it.
[Prov 22:7] The rich rule over the poor, and the borrower is servant to the lender.
[Prov 22:8] The one who sows iniquity will reap trouble, and the rod of his fury will end.
[Prov 22:9] A generous person will be blessed, for he has given some of his food to the poor.
[Prov 22:10] Drive out the scorner and contention will leave; strife and insults will cease.
[Prov 22:11] The one who loves a pure heart and whose speech is gracious – the king will be his friend.
[Prov 22:12] The eyes of the Lord watched over a cause, and subverted the words of the treacherous person.
[Prov 22:13] The sluggard has said, “There is a lion outside! I will be killed in the middle of the streets!”
[Prov 22:14] The mouth of an adulteress is like a deep pit; the one against whom the Lord is angry will fall into it.
[Prov 22:15] Folly is bound up in the heart of a child, but the rod of discipline will drive it far from him.
[Prov 22:16] The one who oppresses the poor to increase his own gain and the one who gives to the rich – both end up only in poverty.

## Instructions for Life
¶[Prov 22:17] Incline your ear and listen to the words of the wise, and apply your mind to my instruction.
[Prov 22:18] For it is pleasing if you keep these sayings within you, and they are ready on your lips.
[Prov 22:19] So that your confidence may be in the Lord, I hereby make them known to you today – even you.
[Prov 22:20] Have I not written thirty sayings for you, sayings of counsel and knowledge,
[Prov 22:21] to show you true and reliable words, so that you may give accurate answers to those who sent you?

## Sayings on Righteousness and Justice
¶[Prov 22:22] Do not exploit a poor person because he is poor and do not crush the needy in court,
[Prov 22:23] for the Lord will plead their case and will rob the life those who are robbing them.
[Prov 22:24] Do not make friends with an angry person, and do not associate with a wrathful person,
[Prov 22:25] lest you learn his ways and entangle yourself in a snare.
[Prov 22:26] Do not be one who strikes hands in pledge or who puts up security for debts.
[Prov 22:27] If you do not have enough to pay, your bed will be taken right out from under you!
[Prov 22:28] Do not move an ancient boundary stone which was put in place by your ancestors.
[Prov 22:29] You have seen a person skilled in his work– he will take his position before kings; he will not take his position before obscure people.
