# Proverbs 23

## Seek Wisdom
¶`Prov 23:1` When you sit down to eat with a ruler, consider carefully what is before you,
`Prov 23:2` and put a knife to your throat if you possess a large appetite.
`Prov 23:3` Do not crave that ruler’s delicacies, for that food is deceptive.
`Prov 23:4` Do not wear yourself out to become rich; be wise enough to restrain yourself.
`Prov 23:5` When you gaze upon riches, they are gone, for they surely make wings for themselves, and fly off into the sky like an eagle!
`Prov 23:6` Do not eat the food of a stingy person, do not crave his delicacies;
`Prov 23:7` for he is like someone who has calculated the cost in his mind. “Eat and drink,” he says to you, but his heart is not with you;
`Prov 23:8` you will vomit up the little bit you have eaten, and will have wasted your pleasant words.
`Prov 23:9` Do not speak in the ears of a fool, for he will despise the wisdom of your words.
`Prov 23:10` Do not move an ancient boundary stone, or take over the fields of the fatherless,
`Prov 23:11` for their Protector is strong; he will plead their case against you.
`Prov 23:12` Apply your heart to instruction and your ears to the words of knowledge.

## Parental Instructions
¶`Prov 23:13` Do not withhold discipline from a child; even if you strike him with the rod, he will not die.
`Prov 23:14` If you strike him with the rod, you will deliver him from death.
`Prov 23:15` My child, if your heart is wise, then my heart also will be glad;
`Prov 23:16` my soul will rejoice when your lips speak what is right.
`Prov 23:17` Do not let your heart envy sinners, but rather be zealous in fearing the Lord all the time.
`Prov 23:18` For surely there is a future, and your hope will not be cut off.
`Prov 23:19` Listen, my child, and be wise, and guide your heart on the right way.
`Prov 23:20` Do not spend time among drunkards, among those who eat too much meat,
`Prov 23:21` because drunkards and gluttons become impoverished, and drowsiness clothes them with rags.
`Prov 23:22` Listen to your father who gave you life, and do not despise your mother when she is old.
`Prov 23:23` Acquire truth and do not sell it – wisdom, and discipline, and understanding.
`Prov 23:24` The father of a righteous person will rejoice greatly; whoever fathers a wise child will have joy in him.
`Prov 23:25` May your father and your mother have joy; may she who bore you rejoice.
`Prov 23:26` Give me your heart, my son, and let your eyes observe my ways;
`Prov 23:27` for a prostitute is like a deep pit; a harlot is like a narrow well.
`Prov 23:28` Indeed, she lies in wait like a robber, and increases the unfaithful among men.

## Warnings
¶`Prov 23:29` Who has woe? Who has sorrow? Who has contentions? Who has complaints? Who has wounds without cause? Who has dullness of the eyes?
`Prov 23:30` Those who linger over wine, those who go looking for mixed wine.
`Prov 23:31` Do not look on the wine when it is red, when it sparkles in the cup, when it goes down smoothly.
`Prov 23:32` Afterward it bites like a snake, and stings like a viper.
`Prov 23:33` Your eyes will see strange things, and your mind will speak perverse things.
`Prov 23:34` And you will be like one who lies down in the midst of the sea, and like one who lies down on the top of the rigging.
`Prov 23:35` You will say, “They have struck me, but I am not harmed! They beat me, but I did not know it! When will I awake? I will look for another drink.”
