# Proverbs 24

## Seeking Wisdom
¶[Prov 24:1] Do not envy evil people, do not desire to be with them;
[Prov 24:2] for their hearts contemplate violence, and their lips speak harm.
[Prov 24:3] By wisdom a house is built, and through understanding it is established;
[Prov 24:4] by knowledge its rooms are filled with all kinds of precious and pleasing treasures.
[Prov 24:5] A wise warrior is strong, and a man of knowledge makes his strength stronger;
[Prov 24:6] for with guidance you wage your war, and with numerous advisers there is victory.
[Prov 24:7] Wisdom is unattainable for a fool; in court he does not open his mouth.

## Judgments and Fairness
¶[Prov 24:8] The one who plans to do evil will be called a scheming person.
[Prov 24:9] A foolish scheme is sin, and the scorner is an abomination to people.
[Prov 24:10] You have slacked off in the day of trouble– your strength is small!
[Prov 24:11] Deliver those being taken away to death, and hold back those slipping to the slaughter.
[Prov 24:12] If you say, “But we did not know about this,” won’t the one who evaluates hearts discern it? Won’t the one who guards your life realize and repay each person according to his deeds?

## Reward and Retribution
¶[Prov 24:13] Eat honey, my child, for it is good, and honey from the honeycomb is sweet to your taste.
[Prov 24:14] Likewise, know that wisdom is sweet to your soul; if you have found it, you have a future, and your hope will not be cut off.
[Prov 24:15] Do not lie in wait like the wicked against the place where the righteous live; do not assault his home.
[Prov 24:16] Indeed a righteous person will fall seven times, and then get up again, but the guilty will collapse in calamity.
[Prov 24:17] Do not rejoice when your enemy falls, and when he stumbles do not let your heart rejoice,
[Prov 24:18] lest the Lord see it, and be displeased, and turn his wrath away from him.
[Prov 24:19] Do not fret because of evil people or be envious of wicked people,
[Prov 24:20] for the evil person has no future, and the lamp of the wicked will be extinguished.

## Wisdom's Rewards
¶[Prov 24:21] Fear the Lord, my child, as well as the king, and do not associate with rebels,
[Prov 24:22] for suddenly their destruction will overtake them, and who knows the ruinous judgment both the Lord and the king can bring?

## Wisdom in Judgment
¶[Prov 24:23] These sayings also are from the wise: To show partiality in judgment is terrible:
[Prov 24:24] The one who says to the guilty, “You are innocent,” peoples will curse him, and nations will denounce him.
[Prov 24:25] But there will be delight for those who convict the guilty, and a pleasing blessing will come on them.
[Prov 24:26] Like a kiss on the lips is the one who gives an honest answer.
[Prov 24:27] Establish your work outside and get your fields ready; afterward build your house.
[Prov 24:28] Do not be a witness against your neighbor without cause, and do not deceive with your words.
[Prov 24:29] Do not say, “I will do to him just as he has done to me; I will pay him back according to what he has done.”

## Laziness and Destruction
¶[Prov 24:30] I passed by the field of a sluggard, by the vineyard of one who lacks sense.
[Prov 24:31] I saw that thorns had grown up all over it, the ground was covered with weeds, and its stone wall was broken down.
[Prov 24:32] Then I scrutinized it. I was putting my mind to it– I saw; I took in a lesson:
[Prov 24:33] “A little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to relax,
[Prov 24:34] and your poverty will come like a bandit, and your need like an armed robber.”
