# Proverbs 25

## Dealing with Kings and Neighbors
¶[Prov 25:1] These also are proverbs of Solomon, which the men of King Hezekiah of Judah copied:

¶[Prov 25:2] It is the glory of God to conceal a matter, and it is the glory of a king to search out a matter.
[Prov 25:3] As the heaven is high and the earth is deep so the hearts of kings are unsearchable.
[Prov 25:4] Remove the dross from the silver, and material for the silversmith will emerge;
[Prov 25:5] remove the wicked from before the king, and his throne will be established in righteousness.
[Prov 25:6] Do not honor yourself before the king, and do not stand in the place of great men;
[Prov 25:7] for it is better for him to say to you, “Come up here,” than to put you lower before a prince, whom your eyes have seen.
[Prov 25:8] Do not go out hastily to litigation, or what will you do afterward when your neighbor puts you to shame?
[Prov 25:9] When you argue a case with your neighbor, do not reveal the secret of another person,
[Prov 25:10] lest the one who hears it put you to shame and your infamy will never go away.
[Prov 25:11] Like apples of gold in settings of silver, so is a word skillfully spoken.
[Prov 25:12] Like an earring of gold and an ornament of fine gold, so is a wise reprover to the ear of the one who listens.
[Prov 25:13] Like the cold of snow in the time of harvest, so is a faithful messenger to those who send him, for he refreshes the heart of his masters.
[Prov 25:14] Like cloudy skies and wind that produce no rain, so is the one who boasts of a gift not given.
[Prov 25:15] Through patience a ruler can be persuaded, and a soft tongue can break a bone.
[Prov 25:16] You have found honey–eat only what is sufficient for you, lest you become stuffed with it and vomit it up.
[Prov 25:17] Don’t set foot too frequently in your neighbor’s house, lest he become weary of you and hate you.
[Prov 25:18] Like a club or a sword or a sharp arrow, so is the one who testifies against his neighbor as a false witness.
[Prov 25:19] Like a bad tooth or a foot out of joint, so is confidence in an unfaithful person at the time of trouble.
[Prov 25:20] Like one who takes off a garment on a cold day, or like vinegar poured on soda, so is one who sings songs to a heavy heart.

## Dealing with Enemies
¶[Prov 25:21] If your enemy is hungry, give him food to eat, and if he is thirsty, give him water to drink,
[Prov 25:22] for you will heap coals of fire on his head, and the Lord will reward you.
[Prov 25:23] The north wind brings forth rain, and a gossiping tongue brings forth an angry look.
[Prov 25:24] It is better to live on a corner of the housetop than in a house in company with a quarrelsome wife.
[Prov 25:25] Like cold water to a weary person, so is good news from a distant land.
[Prov 25:26] Like a muddied spring and a polluted well, so is a righteous person who gives way before the wicked.
[Prov 25:27] It is not good to eat too much honey, nor is it honorable for people to seek their own glory.
[Prov 25:28] Like a city that is broken down and without a wall, so is a person who cannot control his temper.
