# Proverbs 26

¶`Prov 26:1` Like snow in summer or rain in harvest, so honor is not fitting for a fool.
`Prov 26:2` Like a fluttering bird or like a flying swallow, so a curse without cause does not come to rest.
`Prov 26:3` A whip for the horse and a bridle for the donkey, and a rod for the backs of fools!
`Prov 26:4` Do not answer a fool according to his folly, lest you yourself also be like him.
`Prov 26:5` Answer a fool according to his folly, lest he be wise in his own opinion.
`Prov 26:6` Like cutting off the feet or drinking violence, so is sending a message by the hand of a fool.
`Prov 26:7` Like legs dangle uselessly from the lame, so a proverb dangles in the mouth of fools.
`Prov 26:8` Like tying a stone in a sling, so is giving honor to a fool.
`Prov 26:9` Like a thorn has gone up into the hand of a drunkard, so a proverb has gone up into the mouth of a fool.
`Prov 26:10` Like an archer who wounds at random, so is the one who hires a fool or hires any passerby.
`Prov 26:11` Like a dog that returns to its vomit, so a fool repeats his folly.
`Prov 26:12` You have seen a man wise in his own opinion– there is more hope for a fool than for him.
`Prov 26:13` The sluggard has said, “There is a lion in the road! A lion in the streets!”
`Prov 26:14` Like a door that turns on its hinges, so a sluggard turns on his bed.
`Prov 26:15` The sluggard has plunged his hand in the dish; he is too lazy to bring it back to his mouth.
`Prov 26:16` The sluggard is wiser in his own opinion than seven people who respond with good sense.
`Prov 26:17` Like one who grabs a wild dog by the ears, so is the person passing by who becomes furious over a quarrel not his own.
`Prov 26:18` Like a madman who shoots firebrands and deadly arrows,
`Prov 26:19` so is a person who has deceived his neighbor, and said, “Was I not only joking?”
`Prov 26:20` Where there is no wood, a fire goes out, and where there is no gossip, contention ceases.
`Prov 26:21` Like charcoal is to burning coals, and wood to fire, so is a contentious person to kindle strife.
`Prov 26:22` The words of a gossip are like choice morsels; and they have gone down into a person’s innermost being.
`Prov 26:23` Like a coating of glaze over earthenware are fervent lips with an evil heart.
`Prov 26:24` The one who hates others disguises it with his lips, but he stores up deceit within him.
`Prov 26:25` When he speaks graciously, do not believe him, for there are seven abominations within him.
`Prov 26:26` Though his hatred may be concealed by deceit, his evil will be uncovered in the assembly.
`Prov 26:27` The one who digs a pit will fall into it; the one who rolls a stone – it will come back on him.
`Prov 26:28` A lying tongue hates those crushed by it, and a flattering mouth works ruin.
