# Proverbs 27

## Wise Sayings
¶`Prov 27:1` Do not boast about tomorrow; for you do not know what a day may bring forth.
`Prov 27:2` Let another praise you, and not your own mouth; someone else, and not your own lips.
`Prov 27:3` A stone is heavy and sand is weighty, but vexation by a fool is more burdensome than the two of them.
`Prov 27:4` Wrath is cruel and anger is overwhelming, but who can stand before jealousy?
`Prov 27:5` Better is open rebuke than hidden love.
`Prov 27:6` Faithful are the wounds of a friend, but the kisses of an enemy are excessive.
`Prov 27:7` The one whose appetite is satisfied loathes honey, but to the hungry mouth every bitter thing is sweet.
`Prov 27:8` Like a bird that wanders from its nest, so is a person who wanders from his home.
`Prov 27:9` Ointment and incense make the heart rejoice, likewise the sweetness of one’s friend from sincere counsel.
`Prov 27:10` Do not forsake your friend and your father’s friend, and do not enter your brother’s house in the day of your disaster; a neighbor nearby is better than a brother far away.
`Prov 27:11` Be wise, my son, and make my heart glad, so that I may answer anyone who taunts me.
`Prov 27:12` A shrewd person saw danger–he hid himself; the naive passed right on by– they had to pay for it.
`Prov 27:13` Take a man’s garment when he has given security for a stranger, and hold him in pledge on behalf of a stranger.
`Prov 27:14` If someone blesses his neighbor with a loud voice early in the morning, it will be counted as a curse to him.
`Prov 27:15` A continual dripping on a rainy day– a contentious wife makes herself like that.
`Prov 27:16` Whoever contains her has contained the wind or can grasp oil with his right hand.
`Prov 27:17` As iron sharpens iron, so a person sharpens his friend.
`Prov 27:18` The one who tends a fig tree will eat its fruit, and whoever takes care of his master will be honored.
`Prov 27:19` As in water the face is reflected as a face, so a person’s heart reflects the person.
`Prov 27:20` As Death and Destruction are never satisfied, so the eyes of a person are never satisfied.
`Prov 27:21` As the crucible is for silver and the furnace is for gold, so a person must put his praise to the test.
`Prov 27:22` If you should pound the fool in the mortar among the grain with the pestle, his foolishness would not depart from him.
`Prov 27:23` Pay careful attention to the condition of your flocks, set your mind on your herds,
`Prov 27:24` for riches do not last forever, nor does a crown last from generation to generation.
`Prov 27:25` When the hay is removed and new grass appears, and the grass from the hills is gathered in,
`Prov 27:26` the lambs will be for your clothing, and the goats will be for the price of a field.
`Prov 27:27` And there will be enough goat’s milk for your food, for the food of your household, and for the sustenance of your servant girls.
