# Proverbs 29

## Righteousness, Justice, and Trust
¶`Prov 29:1` The one who stiffens his neck after numerous rebukes will suddenly be destroyed without remedy.
`Prov 29:2` When the righteous become numerous, the people rejoice; when the wicked rule, the people groan.
`Prov 29:3` The man who loves wisdom brings joy to his father, but whoever associates with prostitutes wastes his wealth.
`Prov 29:4` A king brings stability to a land by justice, but one who exacts tribute tears it down.
`Prov 29:5` The one who flatters his neighbor spreads a net for his steps.
`Prov 29:6` In the transgression of an evil person there is a snare, but a righteous person can sing and rejoice.
`Prov 29:7` The righteous person cares for the legal rights of the poor; the wicked does not understand such knowledge.
`Prov 29:8` Scornful people inflame a city, but those who are wise turn away wrath.
`Prov 29:9` When a wise person goes to court with a foolish person, there is no peace whether he is angry or laughs.
`Prov 29:10` Bloodthirsty people hate someone with integrity; as for the upright, they seek his life.
`Prov 29:11` A fool lets fly with all his temper, but a wise person keeps it back.
`Prov 29:12` If a ruler listens to lies, all his ministers will be wicked.
`Prov 29:13` The poor person and the oppressor have this in common: the Lord gives light to the eyes of them both.
`Prov 29:14` If a king judges the poor in truth, his throne will be established forever.
`Prov 29:15` A rod and reproof impart wisdom, but a child who is unrestrained brings shame to his mother.
`Prov 29:16` When the wicked increase, transgression increases, but the righteous will see their downfall.
`Prov 29:17` Discipline your child, and he will give you rest; he will bring you happiness.
`Prov 29:18` When there is no prophetic vision the people cast off restraint, but the one who keeps the law, blessed is he!
`Prov 29:19` A servant cannot be corrected by words, for although he understands, there is no answer.
`Prov 29:20` You have seen someone who is hasty in his words– there is more hope for a fool than for him.
`Prov 29:21` If someone pampers his servant from youth, he will be a weakling in the end.
`Prov 29:22` An angry person stirs up dissension, and a wrathful person is abounding in transgression.
`Prov 29:23` A person’s pride will bring him low, but one who has a lowly spirit will gain honor.
`Prov 29:24` Whoever shares with a thief is his own enemy; he hears the oath to testify, but does not talk.
`Prov 29:25` The fear of people becomes a snare, but whoever trusts in the Lord will be set on high.
`Prov 29:26` Many people seek the face of a ruler, but it is from the Lord that one receives justice.
`Prov 29:27` An unjust person is an abomination to the righteous, and the one who lives an upright life is an abomination to the wicked.
