# Proverbs 31

## Introduction to Lemuel
¶`Prov 31:1` The words of King Lemuel, an oracle that his mother taught him:

## Ethical Instructions
¶`Prov 31:2` O my son, O son of my womb, O son of my vows,
`Prov 31:3` Do not give your strength to women, nor your ways to that which ruins kings.
`Prov 31:4` It is not for kings, O Lemuel, it is not for kings to drink wine, or for rulers to crave strong drink,
`Prov 31:5` lest they drink and forget what is decreed, and remove from all the poor their legal rights.
`Prov 31:6` Give strong drink to the one who is perishing, and wine to those who are bitterly distressed;
`Prov 31:7` let them drink and forget their poverty, and remember their misery no more.
`Prov 31:8` Open your mouth on behalf of those unable to speak, for the legal rights of all the dying.
`Prov 31:9` Open your mouth, judge in righteousness, and plead the cause of the poor and needy.

## The Model Wife
¶`Prov 31:10` Who can find a wife of noble character? For her value is far more than rubies.
`Prov 31:11` Her husband’s heart has trusted her, and he does not lack the dividends.
`Prov 31:12` She has rewarded him with good and not harm all the days of her life.
`Prov 31:13` She sought out wool and flax, then worked happily with her hands.
`Prov 31:14` She was like the merchant ships; she would bring in her food from afar.
`Prov 31:15` Then she rose while it was still night, and provided food for her household and a portion to her female servants.
`Prov 31:16` She considered a field and bought it; from her own income she planted a vineyard.
`Prov 31:17` She clothed herself in might, and she strengthened her arms.
`Prov 31:18` She perceived that her merchandise was good. Her lamp would not go out in the night.
`Prov 31:19` She extended her hands to the spool, and her hands grasped the spindle.
`Prov 31:20` She opened her hand to the poor, and extended her hands to the needy.
`Prov 31:21` She would not fear for her household in winter, because all of her household were clothed with scarlet,
`Prov 31:22` because she had made coverings for herself; and because her clothing was fine linen and purple.
`Prov 31:23` Her husband is well-known in the city gate when he sits with the elders of the land.
`Prov 31:24` She made linen garments then sold them, and traded belts to the merchants;
`Prov 31:25` her clothing was strong and splendid; and she laughed at the time to come.
`Prov 31:26` She has opened her mouth with wisdom, with loving instruction on her tongue.
`Prov 31:27` Watching over the ways of her household, she would not eat the bread of idleness.

## Praise for the Virtuous Woman
¶`Prov 31:28` Her children have risen and called her blessed; her husband also has praised her:
`Prov 31:29` “Many daughters have done valiantly, but you have surpassed them all!”
`Prov 31:30` Charm is deceitful and beauty is fleeting. A woman who fears the Lord– she makes herself praiseworthy.
`Prov 31:31` Give her credit for what she has accomplished, and let her works praise her in the city gates.
