# Revelation 12

## The Woman, the Child, and the Dragon
¶[Rev 12:1] Then a great sign appeared in heaven: a woman clothed with the sun, and with the moon under her feet, and on her head was a crown of twelve stars.
[Rev 12:2] She was pregnant and was screaming in labor pains, struggling to give birth.
[Rev 12:3] Then another sign appeared in heaven: a huge red dragon that had seven heads and ten horns, and on its heads were seven diadem crowns.
[Rev 12:4] Now the dragon’s tail swept away a third of the stars in heaven and hurled them to the earth. Then the dragon stood before the woman who was about to give birth, so that he might devour her child as soon as it was born.
[Rev 12:5] So the woman gave birth to a son, a male child, who is going to rule over all the nations with an iron rod. Her child was suddenly caught up to God and to his throne,
[Rev 12:6] and she fled into the wilderness where a place had been prepared for her by God, so she could be taken care of for 1,260 days.

¶[Rev 12:7] Then war broke out in heaven: Michael and his angels fought against the dragon, and the dragon and his angels fought back.
[Rev 12:8] But the dragon was not strong enough to prevail, so there was no longer any place left in heaven for him and his angels.
[Rev 12:9] So that huge dragon – the ancient serpent, the one called the devil and Satan, who deceives the whole world – was thrown down to the earth, and his angels along with him.
[Rev 12:10] Then I heard a loud voice in heaven saying, “The salvation and the power and the kingdom of our God, and the ruling authority of his Christ, have now come, because the accuser of our brothers and sisters, the one who accuses them day and night before our God, has been thrown down.
[Rev 12:11] But they overcame him by the blood of the Lamb and by the word of their testimony, and they did not love their lives so much that they were afraid to die.
[Rev 12:12] Therefore you heavens rejoice, and all who reside in them! But woe to the earth and the sea because the devil has come down to you! He is filled with terrible anger, for he knows that he only has a little time!”

¶[Rev 12:13] Now when the dragon realized that he had been thrown down to the earth, he pursued the woman who had given birth to the male child.
[Rev 12:14] But the woman was given the two wings of a giant eagle so that she could fly out into the wilderness, to the place God prepared for her, where she is taken care of – away from the presence of the serpent – for a time, times, and half a time.
[Rev 12:15] Then the serpent spouted water like a river out of his mouth after the woman in an attempt to sweep her away by a flood,
[Rev 12:16] but the earth came to her rescue; the ground opened up and swallowed the river that the dragon had spewed from his mouth.
[Rev 12:17] So the dragon became enraged at the woman and went away to make war on the rest of her children, those who keep God’s commandments and hold to the testimony about Jesus.
[Rev 12:18] And the dragon stood on the sand of the seashore.
