# Revelation 16

## First Bowl: Loathsome Sores
¶[Rev 16:1] Then I heard a loud voice from the temple declaring to the seven angels: “Go and pour out on the earth the seven bowls containing God’s wrath.”

¶[Rev 16:2] So the first angel went and poured out his bowl on the earth. Then ugly and painful sores appeared on the people who had the mark of the beast and who worshiped his image.

## Second Bowl: Seas Turn to Blood
¶[Rev 16:3] Next, the second angel poured out his bowl on the sea and it turned into blood, like that of a corpse, and every living creature that was in the sea died.

## Third Bowl: Rivers and Springs Become Blood
¶[Rev 16:4] Then the third angel poured out his bowl on the rivers and the springs of water, and they turned into blood.
[Rev 16:5] Now I heard the angel of the waters saying: “You are just – the one who is and who was, the Holy One – because you have passed these judgments,
[Rev 16:6] because they poured out the blood of your saints and prophets, so you have given them blood to drink. They got what they deserved!”
[Rev 16:7] Then I heard the altar reply, “Yes, Lord God, the All-Powerful, your judgments are true and just!”

## Fourth Bowl: Intense Heat
¶[Rev 16:8] Then the fourth angel poured out his bowl on the sun, and it was permitted to scorch people with fire.
[Rev 16:9] Thus people were scorched by the terrible heat, yet they blasphemed the name of God, who has ruling authority over these plagues, and they would not repent and give him glory.

## Fifth Bowl: Darkness
¶[Rev 16:10] Then the fifth angel poured out his bowl on the throne of the beast so that darkness covered his kingdom, and people began to bite their tongues because of their pain.
[Rev 16:11] They blasphemed the God of heaven because of their sufferings and because of their sores, but nevertheless they still refused to repent of their deeds.

## Sixth Bowl: The Euphrates Dried Up
¶[Rev 16:12] Then the sixth angel poured out his bowl on the great river Euphrates and dried up its water to prepare the way for the kings from the east.
[Rev 16:13] Then I saw three unclean spirits that looked like frogs coming out of the mouth of the dragon, out of the mouth of the beast, and out of the mouth of the false prophet.
[Rev 16:14] For they are the spirits of the demons performing signs who go out to the kings of the earth to bring them together for the battle that will take place on the great day of God, the All-Powerful.
[Rev 16:15] (Look ! I will come like a thief! Blessed is the one who stays alert and does not lose his clothes so that he will not have to walk around naked and his shameful condition be seen.)
[Rev 16:16] Now the spirits gathered the kings and their armies to the place that is called Armageddon in Hebrew.

## Seventh Bowl: The Great Earthquake and Hailstorm
¶[Rev 16:17] Finally the seventh angel poured out his bowl into the air and a loud voice came out of the temple from the throne, saying: “It is done!”
[Rev 16:18] Then there were flashes of lightning, roaring, and crashes of thunder, and there was a tremendous earthquake – an earthquake unequaled since humanity has been on the earth, so tremendous was that earthquake.
[Rev 16:19] The great city was split into three parts and the cities of the nations collapsed. So Babylon the great was remembered before God, and was given the cup filled with the wine made of God’s furious wrath.
[Rev 16:20] Every island fled away and no mountains could be found.
[Rev 16:21] And gigantic hailstones, weighing about a hundred pounds each, fell from heaven on people, but they blasphemed God because of the plague of hail, since it was so horrendous.
