# Genesis 5

## Genealogy from Adam to Noah
¶[Gen 5:1] This is the record of the family line of Adam. When God created humankind, he made them in the likeness of God.
[Gen 5:2] He created them male and female; when they were created, he blessed them and named them “humankind.”
[Gen 5:3] When Adam had lived 130 years he fathered a son in his own likeness, according to his image, and he named him Seth.
[Gen 5:4] The length of time Adam lived after he became the father of Seth was 800 years; during this time he had other sons and daughters.
[Gen 5:5] The entire lifetime of Adam was 930 years, and then he died.

¶[Gen 5:6] When Seth had lived 105 years, he became the father of Enosh.
[Gen 5:7] Seth lived 807 years after he became the father of Enosh, and he had other sons and daughters.
[Gen 5:8] The entire lifetime of Seth was 912 years, and then he died.

¶[Gen 5:9] When Enosh had lived 90 years, he became the father of Kenan.
[Gen 5:10] Enosh lived 815 years after he became the father of Kenan, and he had other sons and daughters.
[Gen 5:11] The entire lifetime of Enosh was 905 years, and then he died.

¶[Gen 5:12] When Kenan had lived 70 years, he became the father of Mahalalel.
[Gen 5:13] Kenan lived 840 years after he became the father of Mahalalel, and he had other sons and daughters.
[Gen 5:14] The entire lifetime of Kenan was 910 years, and then he died.

¶[Gen 5:15] When Mahalalel had lived 65 years, he became the father of Jared.
[Gen 5:16] Mahalalel lived 830 years after he became the father of Jared, and he had other sons and daughters.
[Gen 5:17] The entire lifetime of Mahalalel was 895 years, and then he died.

¶[Gen 5:18] When Jared had lived 162 years, he became the father of Enoch.
[Gen 5:19] Jared lived 800 years after he became the father of Enoch, and he had other sons and daughters.
[Gen 5:20] The entire lifetime of Jared was 962 years, and then he died.

¶[Gen 5:21] When Enoch had lived 65 years, he became the father of Methuselah.
[Gen 5:22] After he became the father of Methuselah, Enoch walked with God for 300 years, and he had other sons and daughters.
[Gen 5:23] The entire lifetime of Enoch was 365 years.
[Gen 5:24] Enoch walked with God, and then he disappeared because God took him away.

¶[Gen 5:25] When Methuselah had lived 187 years, he became the father of Lamech.
[Gen 5:26] Methuselah lived 782 years after he became the father of Lamech, and he had other sons and daughters.
[Gen 5:27] The entire lifetime of Methuselah was 969 years, and then he died.

¶[Gen 5:28] When Lamech had lived 182 years, he had a son.
[Gen 5:29] He named him Noah, saying, “This one will bring us comfort from our labor and from the painful toil of our hands because of the ground that the Lord has cursed.”
[Gen 5:30] Lamech lived 595 years after he became the father of Noah, and he had other sons and daughters.
[Gen 5:31] The entire lifetime of Lamech was 777 years, and then he died.

¶[Gen 5:32] After Noah was 500 years old, he became the father of Shem, Ham, and Japheth.
