# Genesis 10

## The genealogy of Noah's sons
¶[Gen 10:1] This is the account of Noah’s sons: Shem, Ham, and Japheth. Sons were born to them after the flood.

¶[Gen 10:2] The sons of Japheth were Gomer, Magog, Madai, Javan, Tubal, Meshech, and Tiras.
[Gen 10:3] The sons of Gomer were Ashkenaz, Riphath, and Togarmah.
[Gen 10:4] The sons of Javan were Elishah, Tarshish, the Kittim, and the Dodanim.
[Gen 10:5] From these the coastlands of the nations were separated into their lands, every one according to its language, according to their families, by their nations.

¶[Gen 10:6] The sons of Ham were Cush, Mizraim, Put, and Canaan.
[Gen 10:7] The sons of Cush were Seba, Havilah, Sabtah, Raamah, and Sabteca. The sons of Raamah were Sheba and Dedan.
[Gen 10:8] Cush was the father of Nimrod; he began to be a valiant warrior on the earth.
[Gen 10:9] He was a mighty hunter before the Lord. (That is why it is said, “Like Nimrod, a mighty hunter before the Lord.
[Gen 10:10] The primary regions of his kingdom were Babel, Erech, Akkad, and Calneh in the land of Shinar.
[Gen 10:11] From that land he went to Assyria, where he built Nineveh, Rehoboth-Ir, Calah,
[Gen 10:12] and Resen, which is between Nineveh and the great city Calah.
[Gen 10:13] Mizraim was the father of the Ludites, Anamites, Lehabites, Naphtuhites,
[Gen 10:14] Pathrusites, Casluhites (from whom the Philistines came), and Caphtorites.

¶[Gen 10:15] Canaan was the father of Sidon his firstborn, Heth,
[Gen 10:16] the Jebusites, Amorites, Girgashites,
[Gen 10:17] Hivites, Arkites, Sinites,
[Gen 10:18] Arvadites, Zemarites, and Hamathites. Eventually the families of the Canaanites were scattered
[Gen 10:19] and the borders of Canaan extended from Sidon all the way to Gerar as far as Gaza, and all the way to Sodom, Gomorrah, Admah, and Zeboiim, as far as Lasha.
[Gen 10:20] These are the sons of Ham, according to their families, according to their languages, by their lands, and by their nations.

¶[Gen 10:21] And sons were also born to Shem (the older brother of Japheth), the father of all the sons of Eber.
[Gen 10:22] The sons of Shem were Elam, Asshur, Arphaxad, Lud, and Aram.
[Gen 10:23] The sons of Aram were Uz, Hul, Gether, and Mash.
[Gen 10:24] Arphaxad was the father of Shelah, and Shelah was the father of Eber.
[Gen 10:25] Two sons were born to Eber: One was named Peleg because in his days the earth was divided, and his brother’s name was Joktan.
[Gen 10:26] Joktan was the father of Almodad, Sheleph, Hazarmaveth, Jerah,
[Gen 10:27] Hadoram, Uzal, Diklah,
[Gen 10:28] Obal, Abimael, Sheba,
[Gen 10:29] Ophir, Havilah, and Jobab. All these were sons of Joktan.
[Gen 10:30] Their dwelling place was from Mesha all the way to Sephar in the eastern hills.
[Gen 10:31] These are the sons of Shem according to their families, according to their languages, by their lands, and according to their nations.

¶[Gen 10:32] These are the families of the sons of Noah, according to their genealogies, by their nations, and from these the nations spread over the earth after the flood.
