# Genesis 11

## The people build the Tower of Babel
¶[Gen 11:1] The whole earth had a common language and a common vocabulary.
[Gen 11:2] When the people moved eastward, they found a plain in Shinar and settled there.
[Gen 11:3] Then they said to one another, “Come, let’s make bricks and bake them thoroughly.” (They had brick instead of stone and tar instead of mortar.)
[Gen 11:4] Then they said, “Come, let’s build ourselves a city and a tower with its top in the heavens so that we may make a name for ourselves. Otherwise we will be scattered across the face of the entire earth.”

## God confuses the languages
¶[Gen 11:5] But the Lord came down to see the city and the tower that the people had started building.
[Gen 11:6] And the Lord said, “If as one people all sharing a common language they have begun to do this, then nothing they plan to do will be beyond them.
[Gen 11:7] Come, let’s go down and confuse their language so they won’t be able to understand each other.”
[Gen 11:8] So the Lord scattered them from there across the face of the entire earth, and they stopped building the city.
[Gen 11:9] That is why its name was called Babel – because there the Lord confused the language of the entire world, and from there the Lord scattered them across the face of the entire earth.

## Genealogy from Shem to Abram
¶[Gen 11:10] This is the account of Shem. Shem was 100 years old when he became the father of Arphaxad, two years after the flood.
[Gen 11:11] And after becoming the father of Arphaxad, Shem lived 500 years and had other sons and daughters.

¶[Gen 11:12] When Arphaxad had lived 35 years, he became the father of Shelah.
[Gen 11:13] And after he became the father of Shelah, Arphaxad lived 403 years and had other sons and daughters.

¶[Gen 11:14] When Shelah had lived 30 years, he became the father of Eber.
[Gen 11:15] And after he became the father of Eber, Shelah lived 403 years and had other sons and daughters.

¶[Gen 11:16] When Eber had lived 34 years, he became the father of Peleg.
[Gen 11:17] And after he became the father of Peleg, Eber lived 430 years and had other sons and daughters.

¶[Gen 11:18] When Peleg had lived 30 years, he became the father of Reu.
[Gen 11:19] And after he became the father of Reu, Peleg lived 209 years and had other sons and daughters.

¶[Gen 11:20] When Reu had lived 32 years, he became the father of Serug.
[Gen 11:21] And after he became the father of Serug, Reu lived 207 years and had other sons and daughters.

¶[Gen 11:22] When Serug had lived 30 years, he became the father of Nahor.
[Gen 11:23] And after he became the father of Nahor, Serug lived 200 years and had other sons and daughters.

¶[Gen 11:24] When Nahor had lived 29 years, he became the father of Terah.
[Gen 11:25] And after he became the father of Terah, Nahor lived 119 years and had other sons and daughters.

¶[Gen 11:26] When Terah had lived 70 years, he became the father of Abram, Nahor, and Haran.

¶[Gen 11:27] This is the account of Terah. Terah became the father of Abram, Nahor, and Haran. And Haran became the father of Lot.
[Gen 11:28] Haran died in the land of his birth, in Ur of the Chaldeans, while his father Terah was still alive.
[Gen 11:29] And Abram and Nahor took wives for themselves. The name of Abram’s wife was Sarai. And the name of Nahor’s wife was Milcah; she was the daughter of Haran, who was the father of both Milcah and Iscah.
[Gen 11:30] But Sarai was barren; she had no children.
[Gen 11:31] Terah took his son Abram, his grandson Lot (the son of Haran), and his daughter-in-law Sarai, his son Abram’s wife, and with them he set out from Ur of the Chaldeans to go to Canaan. When they came to Haran, they settled there.
[Gen 11:32] The lifetime of Terah was 205 years, and he died in Haran.
