# Genesis 13

## Conflict between Abram and Lot's herdsmen
¶[Gen 13:1] So Abram went up from Egypt into the Negev. He took his wife and all his possessions with him, as well as Lot.
[Gen 13:2] (Now Abram was very wealthy in livestock, silver, and gold.)
[Gen 13:3] And he journeyed from place to place from the Negev as far as Bethel. He returned to the place where he had pitched his tent at the beginning, between Bethel and Ai.
[Gen 13:4] This was the place where he had first built the altar, and there Abram worshiped the Lord.
[Gen 13:5] Now Lot, who was traveling with Abram, also had flocks, herds, and tents.
[Gen 13:6] But the land could not support them while they were living side by side. Because their possessions were so great, they were not able to live alongside one another.
[Gen 13:7] So there were quarrels between Abram’s herdsmen and Lot’s herdsmen. (Now the Canaanites and the Perizzites were living in the land at that time.)

## Abram and Lot separate, Lot chooses the plain of Jordan
¶[Gen 13:8] Abram said to Lot, “Let there be no quarreling between me and you, and between my herdsmen and your herdsmen, for we are close relatives.
[Gen 13:9] Is not the whole land before you? Separate yourself now from me. If you go to the left, then I’ll go to the right, but if you go to the right, then I’ll go to the left.”
[Gen 13:10] Lot looked up and saw the whole region of the Jordan. He noticed that all of it was well-watered (before the Lord obliterated Sodom and Gomorrah) like the garden of the Lord, like the land of Egypt, all the way to Zoar.
[Gen 13:11] Lot chose for himself the whole region of the Jordan and traveled toward the east. So the relatives separated from each other.
[Gen 13:12] Abram settled in the land of Canaan, but Lot settled among the cities of the Jordan plain and pitched his tents next to Sodom.
[Gen 13:13] (Now the people of Sodom were extremely wicked rebels against the Lord.)

## God's reaffirmation of the promise to Abram
¶[Gen 13:14] After Lot had departed, the Lord said to Abram, “Look from the place where you stand to the north, south, east, and west.
[Gen 13:15] I will give all the land that you see to you and your descendants forever.
[Gen 13:16] And I will make your descendants like the dust of the earth, so that if anyone is able to count the dust of the earth, then your descendants also can be counted.
[Gen 13:17] Get up and walk throughout the land, for I will give it to you.”
[Gen 13:18] So Abram moved his tents and went to live by the oaks of Mamre in Hebron, and he built an altar to the Lord there.
