# Genesis 15

## God's promise of descendants and Abram's faith
¶[Gen 15:1] After these things the Lord’s message came to Abram in a vision: “Fear not, Abram! I am your shield and the one who will reward you in great abundance.”
[Gen 15:2] But Abram said, “O Sovereign Lord, what will you give me since I continue to be childless, and my heir is Eliezer of Damascus?”
[Gen 15:3] Abram added, “Since you have not given me a descendant, then look, one born in my house will be my heir!”
[Gen 15:4] But look, the Lord’s message came to him: “This man will not be your heir, but instead a son who comes from your own body will be your heir.”
[Gen 15:5] The Lord took him outside and said, “Gaze into the sky and count the stars – if you are able to count them!” Then he said to him, “So will your descendants be.”
[Gen 15:6] Abram believed the Lord, and the Lord credited it as righteousness to him.

## The covenant ceremony and prophecy of future events
¶[Gen 15:7] The Lord said to him, “I am the Lord who brought you out from Ur of the Chaldeans to give you this land to possess.”
[Gen 15:8] But Abram said, “O Sovereign Lord, by what can I know that I am to possess it?”
[Gen 15:9] The Lord said to him, “Take for me a heifer, a goat, and a ram, each three years old, along with a dove and a young pigeon.”
[Gen 15:10] So Abram took all these for him and then cut them in two and placed each half opposite the other, but he did not cut the birds in half.
[Gen 15:11] When birds of prey came down on the carcasses, Abram drove them away.

¶[Gen 15:12] When the sun went down, Abram fell sound asleep, and great terror overwhelmed him.
[Gen 15:13] Then the Lord said to Abram, “Know for certain that your descendants will be strangers in a foreign country. They will be enslaved and oppressed for four hundred years.
[Gen 15:14] But I will execute judgment on the nation that they will serve. Afterward they will come out with many possessions.
[Gen 15:15] But as for you, you will go to your ancestors in peace and be buried at a good old age.
[Gen 15:16] In the fourth generation your descendants will return here, for the sin of the Amorites has not yet reached its limit.”
[Gen 15:17] When the sun had gone down and it was dark, a smoking firepot with a flaming torch passed between the animal parts.
[Gen 15:18] That day the Lord made a covenant with Abram: “To your descendants I give this land, from the river of Egypt to the great river, the Euphrates River –
[Gen 15:19] the land of the Kenites, Kenizzites, Kadmonites,
[Gen 15:20] Hittites, Perizzites, Rephaites,
[Gen 15:21] Amorites, Canaanites, Girgashites, and Jebusites.”
