# Genesis 16

## Sarai, Hagar, and Abram's failure
¶[Gen 16:1] Now Sarai, Abram’s wife, had not given birth to any children, but she had an Egyptian servant named Hagar.
[Gen 16:2] So Sarai said to Abram, “Since the Lord has prevented me from having children, please sleep with my servant. Perhaps I can have a family by her.” Abram did what Sarai told him.
[Gen 16:3] So after Abram had lived in Canaan for ten years, Sarai, Abram’s wife, gave Hagar, her Egyptian servant, to her husband to be his wife.
[Gen 16:4] He slept with Hagar, and she became pregnant. Once Hagar realized she was pregnant, she despised Sarai.
[Gen 16:5] Then Sarai said to Abram, “You have brought this wrong on me! I gave my servant into your embrace, but when she realized that she was pregnant, she despised me. May the Lord judge between you and me!”
[Gen 16:6] Abram said to Sarai, “Since your servant is under your authority, do to her whatever you think best.” Then Sarai treated Hagar harshly, so she ran away from Sarai.

## The Angel of the Lord encounters Hagar and prophesies about Ishmael
¶[Gen 16:7] The Lord’s angel found Hagar near a spring of water in the wilderness – the spring that is along the road to Shur.
[Gen 16:8] He said, “Hagar, servant of Sarai, where have you come from, and where are you going?” She replied, “I’m running away from my mistress, Sarai.”
[Gen 16:9] Then the Lord’s angel said to her, “Return to your mistress and submit to her authority.
[Gen 16:10] I will greatly multiply your descendants,” the Lord’s angel added, “so that they will be too numerous to count.”
[Gen 16:11] Then the Lord’s angel said to her, “You are now pregnant and are about to give birth to a son. You are to name him Ishmael, for the Lord has heard your painful groans.
[Gen 16:12] He will be a wild donkey of a man. He will be hostile to everyone, and everyone will be hostile to him. He will live away from his brothers.”
[Gen 16:13] So Hagar named the Lord who spoke to her, “You are the God who sees me,” for she said, “Here I have seen one who sees me!”
[Gen 16:14] That is why the well was called Beer Lahai Roi. (It is located between Kadesh and Bered.)

¶[Gen 16:15] So Hagar gave birth to Abram’s son, whom Abram named Ishmael.
[Gen 16:16] (Now Abram was 86 years old when Hagar gave birth to Ishmael.)
