# Genesis 33

## Jacob and Esau's reunion and parting
¶[Gen 33:1] Jacob looked up and saw that Esau was coming along with four hundred men. So he divided the children among Leah, Rachel, and the two female servants.
[Gen 33:2] He put the servants and their children in front, with Leah and her children behind them, and Rachel and Joseph behind them.
[Gen 33:3] But Jacob himself went on ahead of them, and he bowed toward the ground seven times as he approached his brother.
[Gen 33:4] But Esau ran to meet him, embraced him, hugged his neck, and kissed him. Then they both wept.
[Gen 33:5] When Esau looked up and saw the women and the children, he asked, “Who are these people with you?” Jacob replied, “The children whom God has graciously given your servant.”
[Gen 33:6] The female servants came forward with their children and bowed down.
[Gen 33:7] Then Leah came forward with her children and they bowed down. Finally Joseph and Rachel came forward and bowed down.
[Gen 33:8] Esau then asked, “What did you intend by sending all these herds to meet me?” Jacob replied, “To find favor in your sight, my lord.”
[Gen 33:9] But Esau said, “I have plenty, my brother. Keep what belongs to you.”
[Gen 33:10] “No, please take them,” Jacob said. “If I have found favor in your sight, accept my gift from my hand. Now that I have seen your face and you have accepted me, it is as if I have seen the face of God.
[Gen 33:11] Please take my present that was brought to you, for God has been generous to me and I have all I need.” When Jacob urged him, he took it.
[Gen 33:12] Then Esau said, “Let’s be on our way! I will go in front of you.”
[Gen 33:13] But Jacob said to him, “My lord knows that the children are young, and that I have to look after the sheep and cattle that are nursing their young. If they are driven too hard for even a single day, all the animals will die.
[Gen 33:14] Let my lord go on ahead of his servant. I will travel more slowly, at the pace of the herds and the children, until I come to my lord at Seir.”
[Gen 33:15] So Esau said, “Let me leave some of my men with you.” “Why do that?” Jacob replied. “My lord has already been kind enough to me.”
[Gen 33:16] So that same day Esau made his way back to Seir.
[Gen 33:17] But Jacob traveled to Succoth where he built himself a house and made shelters for his livestock. That is why the place was called Succoth.

## Jacob settles in Shechem and builds an altar
¶[Gen 33:18] After he left Paddan Aram, Jacob came safely to the city of Shechem in the land of Canaan, and he camped near the city.
[Gen 33:19] Then he purchased the portion of the field where he had pitched his tent; he bought it from the sons of Hamor, Shechem’s father, for a hundred pieces of money.
[Gen 33:20] There he set up an altar and called it “The God of Israel is God.”
