# Genesis 49

¶[Gen 49:1] Jacob called for his sons and said, “Gather together so I can tell you what will happen to you in the future.

¶[Gen 49:2] “Assemble and listen, you sons of Jacob; listen to Israel, your father.
[Gen 49:3] Reuben, you are my firstborn, my might and the beginning of my strength, outstanding in dignity, outstanding in power.
[Gen 49:4] You are destructive like water and will not excel, for you got on your father’s bed, then you defiled it – he got on my couch!
[Gen 49:5] Simeon and Levi are brothers, weapons of violence are their knives!
[Gen 49:6] O my soul, do not come into their council, do not be united to their assembly, my heart, for in their anger they have killed men, and for pleasure they have hamstrung oxen.
[Gen 49:7] Cursed be their anger, for it was fierce, and their fury, for it was cruel. I will divide them in Jacob, and scatter them in Israel!
[Gen 49:8] Judah, your brothers will praise you. Your hand will be on the neck of your enemies, your father’s sons will bow down before you.
[Gen 49:9] You are a lion’s cub, Judah, from the prey, my son, you have gone up. He crouches and lies down like a lion; like a lioness – who will rouse him?
[Gen 49:10] The scepter will not depart from Judah, nor the ruler’s staff from between his feet, until he comes to whom it belongs; the nations will obey him.
[Gen 49:11] Binding his foal to the vine, and his colt to the choicest vine, he will wash his garments in wine, his robes in the blood of grapes.
[Gen 49:12] His eyes will be red from wine, and his teeth white from milk.
[Gen 49:13] Zebulun will live by the haven of the sea and become a haven for ships; his border will extend to Sidon.
[Gen 49:14] Issachar is a strong-boned donkey lying down between two saddlebags.
[Gen 49:15] When he sees a good resting place, and the pleasant land, he will bend his shoulder to the burden and become a slave laborer.
[Gen 49:16] Dan will judge his people as one of the tribes of Israel.
[Gen 49:17] May Dan be a snake beside the road, a viper by the path, that bites the heels of the horse so that its rider falls backward.
[Gen 49:18] I wait for your deliverance, O Lord.
[Gen 49:19] Gad will be raided by marauding bands, but he will attack them at their heels.
[Gen 49:20] Asher’s food will be rich, and he will provide delicacies to royalty.
[Gen 49:21] Naphtali is a free running doe, he speaks delightful words.
[Gen 49:22] Joseph is a fruitful bough, a fruitful bough near a spring whose branches climb over the wall.
[Gen 49:23] The archers will attack him, they will shoot at him and oppose him.
[Gen 49:24] But his bow will remain steady, and his hands will be skillful; because of the hands of the Powerful One of Jacob, because of the Shepherd, the Rock of Israel,
[Gen 49:25] because of the God of your father, who will help you, because of the Sovereign God, who will bless you with blessings from the sky above, blessings from the deep that lies below, and blessings of the breasts and womb.
[Gen 49:26] The blessings of your father are greater than the blessings of the eternal mountains or the desirable things of the age-old hills. They will be on the head of Joseph and on the brow of the prince of his brothers.
[Gen 49:27] Benjamin is a ravenous wolf; in the morning devouring the prey, and in the evening dividing the plunder.”

¶[Gen 49:28] These are the twelve tribes of Israel. This is what their father said to them when he blessed them. He gave each of them an appropriate blessing.
[Gen 49:29] Then he instructed them, “I am about to go to my people. Bury me with my fathers in the cave in the field of Ephron the Hittite.
[Gen 49:30] It is the cave in the field of Machpelah, near Mamre in the land of Canaan, which Abraham bought for a burial plot from Ephron the Hittite.
[Gen 49:31] There they buried Abraham and his wife Sarah; there they buried Isaac and his wife Rebekah; and there I buried Leah.
[Gen 49:32] The field and the cave in it were acquired from the sons of Heth.”
[Gen 49:33] When Jacob finished giving these instructions to his sons, he pulled his feet up onto the bed, breathed his last breath, and went to his people.
