# Hebrews 3

## Comparing Christ and Moses
¶[Heb 3:1] Therefore, holy brothers and sisters, partners in a heavenly calling, take note of Jesus, the apostle and high priest whom we confess,
[Heb 3:2] who is faithful to the one who appointed him, as Moses was also in God’s house.
[Heb 3:3] For he has come to deserve greater glory than Moses, just as the builder of a house deserves greater honor than the house itself!
[Heb 3:4] For every house is built by someone, but the builder of all things is God.
[Heb 3:5] Now Moses was faithful in all God’s house as a servant, to testify to the things that would be spoken.
[Heb 3:6] But Christ is faithful as a son over God’s house. We are of his house, if in fact we hold firmly to our confidence and the hope we take pride in.

## Warning against unbelief and disobedience
¶[Heb 3:7] Therefore, as the Holy Spirit says, “Oh, that today you would listen as he speaks!
[Heb 3:8] “Do not harden your hearts as in the rebellion, in the day of testing in the wilderness.
[Heb 3:9] “There your fathers tested me and tried me, and they saw my works for forty years.
[Heb 3:10] “Therefore, I became provoked at that generation and said, ‘Their hearts are always wandering and they have not known my ways.’
[Heb 3:11] “As I swore in my anger, ‘They will never enter my rest!’”

¶[Heb 3:12] See to it, brothers and sisters, that none of you has an evil, unbelieving heart that forsakes the living God.
[Heb 3:13] But exhort one another each day, as long as it is called “Today,” that none of you may become hardened by sin’s deception.
[Heb 3:14] For we have become partners with Christ, if in fact we hold our initial confidence firm until the end.
[Heb 3:15] As it says, “Oh, that today you would listen as he speaks! Do not harden your hearts as in the rebellion.”

¶[Heb 3:16] For which ones heard and rebelled? Was it not all who came out of Egypt under Moses’ leadership?
[Heb 3:17] And against whom was God provoked for forty years? Was it not those who sinned, whose dead bodies fell in the wilderness?
[Heb 3:18] And to whom did he swear they would never enter into his rest, except those who were disobedient?
[Heb 3:19] So we see that they could not enter because of unbelief.
