# Hebrews 12

## Jesus as the founder and perfecter of faith
¶[Heb 12:1] Therefore, since we are surrounded by such a great cloud of witnesses, we must get rid of every weight and the sin that clings so closely, and run with endurance the race set out for us,
[Heb 12:2] keeping our eyes fixed on Jesus, the pioneer and perfecter of our faith. For the joy set out for him he endured the cross, disregarding its shame, and has taken his seat at the right hand of the throne of God.
[Heb 12:3] Think of him who endured such opposition against himself by sinners, so that you may not grow weary in your souls and give up.

## Enduring discipline as children of God
¶[Heb 12:4] You have not yet resisted to the point of bloodshed in your struggle against sin.
[Heb 12:5] And have you forgotten the exhortation addressed to you as sons? “My son, do not scorn the Lord’s discipline or give up when he corrects you.
[Heb 12:6] “For the Lord disciplines the one he loves and chastises every son he accepts.”

¶[Heb 12:7] Endure your suffering as discipline; God is treating you as sons. For what son is there that a father does not discipline?
[Heb 12:8] But if you do not experience discipline, something all sons have shared in, then you are illegitimate and are not sons.
[Heb 12:9] Besides, we have experienced discipline from our earthly fathers and we respected them; shall we not submit ourselves all the more to the Father of spirits and receive life?
[Heb 12:10] For they disciplined us for a little while as seemed good to them, but he does so for our benefit, that we may share his holiness.
[Heb 12:11] Now all discipline seems painful at the time, not joyful. But later it produces the fruit of peace and righteousness for those trained by it.
[Heb 12:12] Therefore, strengthen your listless hands and your weak knees,
[Heb 12:13] and make straight paths for your feet, so that what is lame may not be put out of joint but be healed.

## The call for holiness and gratitude
¶[Heb 12:14] Pursue peace with everyone, and holiness, for without it no one will see the Lord.
[Heb 12:15] See to it that no one comes short of the grace of God, that no one be like a bitter root springing up and causing trouble, and through it many become defiled.
[Heb 12:16] And see to it that no one becomes an immoral or godless person like Esau, who sold his own birthright for a single meal.
[Heb 12:17] For you know that later when he wanted to inherit the blessing, he was rejected, for he found no opportunity for repentance, although he sought the blessing with tears.

¶[Heb 12:18] For you have not come to something that can be touched, to a burning fire and darkness and gloom and a whirlwind
[Heb 12:19] and the blast of a trumpet and a voice uttering words such that those who heard begged to hear no more.
[Heb 12:20] For they could not bear what was commanded: “If even an animal touches the mountain, it must be stoned.”
[Heb 12:21] In fact, the scene was so terrifying that Moses said, “I shudder with fear.”
[Heb 12:22] But you have come to Mount Zion, the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to myriads of angels, to the assembly
[Heb 12:23] and congregation of the firstborn, who are enrolled in heaven, and to God, the judge of all, and to the spirits of the righteous, who have been made perfect,
[Heb 12:24] and to Jesus, the mediator of a new covenant, and to the sprinkled blood that speaks of something better than Abel’s does.
[Heb 12:25] Take care not to refuse the one who is speaking! For if they did not escape when they refused the one who warned them on earth, how much less shall we, if we reject the one who warns from heaven?
[Heb 12:26] Then his voice shook the earth, but now he has promised, “I will once more shake not only the earth but heaven too.”
[Heb 12:27] Now this phrase “once more” indicates the removal of what is shaken, that is, of created things, so that what is unshaken may remain.
[Heb 12:28] So since we are receiving an unshakable kingdom, let us give thanks, and through this let us offer worship pleasing to God in devotion and awe.
[Heb 12:29] For our God is indeed a devouring fire.
