# Lamentations 3

## The Distress of the Prophet
¶[Lam 3:1] I am the man who has experienced affliction from the rod of his wrath.
[Lam 3:2] He drove me into captivity and made me walk in darkness and not light.
[Lam 3:3] He repeatedly attacks me, he turns his hand against me all day long.
[Lam 3:4] He has made my mortal skin waste away; he has broken my bones.
[Lam 3:5] He has besieged and surrounded me with bitter hardship.
[Lam 3:6] He has made me reside in deepest darkness like those who died long ago.
[Lam 3:7] He has walled me in so that I cannot get out; he has weighted me down with heavy prison chains.
[Lam 3:8] Also, when I cry out desperately for help, he has shut out my prayer.
[Lam 3:9] He has blocked every road I take with a wall of hewn stones; he has made every path impassable.
[Lam 3:10] To me he is like a bear lying in ambush, like a hidden lion stalking its prey.
[Lam 3:11] He has obstructed my paths and torn me to pieces; he has made me desolate.
[Lam 3:12] He drew his bow and made me the target for his arrow.
[Lam 3:13] He shot his arrows into my heart.
[Lam 3:14] I have become the laughingstock of all people, their mocking song all day long.
[Lam 3:15] He has given me my fill of bitter herbs and made me drunk with bitterness.
[Lam 3:16] He ground my teeth in gravel; he trampled me in the dust.
[Lam 3:17] I am deprived of peace; I have forgotten what happiness is.
[Lam 3:18] So I said, “My endurance has expired; I have lost all hope of deliverance from the Lord.”

## The Hope in God's Faithfulness
¶[Lam 3:19] Remember my impoverished and homeless condition, which is a bitter poison.
[Lam 3:20] I continually think about this, and I am depressed.
[Lam 3:21] But this I call to mind; therefore I have hope:
[Lam 3:22] The Lord’s loyal kindness never ceases; his compassions never end.
[Lam 3:23] They are fresh every morning; your faithfulness is abundant!
[Lam 3:24] “My portion is the Lord,” I have said to myself, so I will put my hope in him.
[Lam 3:25] The Lord is good to those who trust in him, to the one who seeks him.
[Lam 3:26] It is good to wait patiently for deliverance from the Lord.
[Lam 3:27] It is good for a man to bear the yoke while he is young.

## The Submission to God's Discipline
¶[Lam 3:28] Let a person sit alone in silence, when the Lord is disciplining him.
[Lam 3:29] Let him bury his face in the dust; perhaps there is hope.
[Lam 3:30] Let him offer his cheek to the one who hits him; let him have his fill of insults.
[Lam 3:31] For the Lord will not reject us forever.
[Lam 3:32] Though he causes us grief, he then has compassion on us according to the abundance of his loyal kindness.
[Lam 3:33] For he is not predisposed to afflict or to grieve people.

## The Call for Repentance
¶[Lam 3:34] To crush underfoot all the earth’s prisoners,
[Lam 3:35] to deprive a person of his rights in the presence of the Most High,
[Lam 3:36] to defraud a person in a lawsuit – the Lord does not approve of such things!
[Lam 3:37] Whose command was ever fulfilled unless the Lord decreed it?
[Lam 3:38] Is it not from the mouth of the Most High that everything comes – both calamity and blessing?
[Lam 3:39] Why should any living person complain when punished for his sins?
[Lam 3:40] Let us carefully examine our ways, and let us return to the Lord.
[Lam 3:41] Let us lift up our hearts and our hands to God in heaven:
[Lam 3:42] “We have blatantly rebelled; you have not forgiven.”

## The Suffering of the People
¶[Lam 3:43] You shrouded yourself with anger and then pursued us; you killed without mercy.
[Lam 3:44] You shrouded yourself with a cloud so that no prayer can get through.
[Lam 3:45] You make us like filthy scum in the estimation of the nations.
[Lam 3:46] All our enemies have gloated over us;
[Lam 3:47] Panic and pitfall have come upon us, devastation and destruction.
[Lam 3:48] Streams of tears flow from my eyes because my people are destroyed.
[Lam 3:49] Tears flow from my eyes and will not stop; there will be no break
[Lam 3:50] until the Lord looks down from heaven and sees what has happened.
[Lam 3:51] What my eyes see grieves me – all the suffering of the daughters in my city.

## The Prayer for Vengeance
¶[Lam 3:52] For no good reason my enemies hunted me down like a bird.
[Lam 3:53] They shut me up in a pit and threw stones at me.
[Lam 3:54] The waters closed over my head; I thought I was about to die.
[Lam 3:55] I have called on your name, O Lord, from the deepest pit.
[Lam 3:56] You heard my plea: “Do not close your ears to my cry for relief!”
[Lam 3:57] You came near on the day I called to you; you said, “Do not fear!”
[Lam 3:58] O Lord, you championed my cause, you redeemed my life.
[Lam 3:59] You have seen the wrong done to me, O Lord; pronounce judgment on my behalf!
[Lam 3:60] You have seen all their vengeance, all their plots against me.
[Lam 3:61] You have heard their taunts, O Lord, all their plots against me.
[Lam 3:62] My assailants revile and conspire against me all day long.
[Lam 3:63] Watch them from morning to evening; I am the object of their mocking songs.
[Lam 3:64] Pay them back what they deserve, O Lord, according to what they have done.
[Lam 3:65] Give them a distraught heart; may your curse be on them!
[Lam 3:66] Pursue them in anger and eradicate them from under the Lord’s heaven.
