# Lamentations 5

## The Suffering and Humiliation
¶[Lam 5:1] O Lord, reflect on what has happened to us; consider and look at our disgrace.
[Lam 5:2] Our inheritance is turned over to strangers; foreigners now occupy our homes.
[Lam 5:3] We have become fatherless orphans; our mothers have become widows.
[Lam 5:4] We must pay money for our own water; we must buy our own wood at a steep price.
[Lam 5:5] We are pursued – they are breathing down our necks; we are weary and have no rest.
[Lam 5:6] We have submitted to Egypt and Assyria in order to buy food to eat.
[Lam 5:7] Our forefathers sinned and are dead, but we suffer their punishment.
[Lam 5:8] Slaves rule over us; there is no one to rescue us from their power.
[Lam 5:9] At the risk of our lives we get our food because robbers lurk in the wilderness.
[Lam 5:10] Our skin is hot as an oven due to a fever from hunger.

## The Desolation and Shame
¶[Lam 5:11] They raped women in Zion, virgins in the towns of Judah.
[Lam 5:12] Princes were hung by their hands; elders were mistreated.
[Lam 5:13] The young men perform menial labor; boys stagger from their labor.
[Lam 5:14] The elders are gone from the city gate; the young men have stopped playing their music.
[Lam 5:15] Our hearts no longer have any joy; our dancing is turned to mourning.
[Lam 5:16] The crown has fallen from our head; woe to us, for we have sinned!
[Lam 5:17] Because of this, our hearts are sick; because of these things, we can hardly see through our tears.
[Lam 5:18] For wild animals are prowling over Mount Zion, which lies desolate.

## The Appeal for God's Mercy
¶[Lam 5:19] But you, O Lord, reign forever; your throne endures from generation to generation.
[Lam 5:20] Why do you keep on forgetting us? Why do you forsake us so long?
[Lam 5:21] Bring us back to yourself, O Lord, so that we may return to you; renew our life as in days before,
[Lam 5:22] unless you have utterly rejected us and are angry with us beyond measure.
