# 2 Samuel 9

## David's kindness to Mephibosheth
¶[2Sam 9:1] Then David asked, “Is anyone still left from the family of Saul, so that I may extend kindness to him for the sake of Jonathan?”
[2Sam 9:2] Now there was a servant from Saul’s house named Ziba, so he was summoned to David. The king asked him, “Are you Ziba?” He replied, “At your service.”
[2Sam 9:3] The king asked, “Is there not someone left from Saul’s family, that I may extend God’s kindness to him?” Ziba said to the king, “One of Jonathan’s sons is left; both of his feet are crippled.”
[2Sam 9:4] The king asked him, “Where is he?” Ziba told the king, “He is at the house of Makir son of Ammiel in Lo Debar.”
[2Sam 9:5] So King David had him brought from the house of Makir son of Ammiel in Lo Debar.
[2Sam 9:6] When Mephibosheth son of Jonathan, the son of Saul, came to David, he bowed low with his face toward the ground. David said, “Mephibosheth?” He replied, “Yes, at your service.”
[2Sam 9:7] David said to him, “Don’t be afraid, because I will certainly extend kindness to you for the sake of Jonathan your father. I will give back to you all the land that belonged to your grandfather Saul, and you will be a regular guest at my table.”
[2Sam 9:8] Then Mephibosheth bowed and said, “Of what importance am I, your servant, that you show regard for a dead dog like me?”

¶[2Sam 9:9] Then the king summoned Ziba, Saul’s attendant, and said to him, “Everything that belonged to Saul and to his entire house I hereby give to your master’s grandson.
[2Sam 9:10] You will cultivate the land for him – you and your sons and your servants. You will bring its produce and it will be food for your master’s grandson to eat. But Mephibosheth, your master’s grandson, will be a regular guest at my table.” (Now Ziba had fifteen sons and twenty servants.)
[2Sam 9:11] Ziba said to the king, “Your servant will do everything that my lord the king has instructed his servant to do.” So Mephibosheth was a regular guest at David’s table, just as though he were one of the king’s sons.
[2Sam 9:12] Now Mephibosheth had a young son whose name was Mica. All the members of Ziba’s household were Mephibosheth’s servants.
[2Sam 9:13] Mephibosheth was living in Jerusalem, for he was a regular guest at the king’s table. But both his feet were crippled.
