# 2 Samuel 22

## David's song of praise
¶[2Sam 22:1] David sang to the Lord the words of this song when the Lord rescued him from the power of all his enemies, including Saul.
[2Sam 22:2] He said: “The Lord is my high ridge, my stronghold, my deliverer.
[2Sam 22:3] My God is my rocky summit where I take shelter, my shield, the horn that saves me, my stronghold, my refuge, my savior. You save me from violence!
[2Sam 22:4] I called to the Lord, who is worthy of praise, and I was delivered from my enemies.
[2Sam 22:5] The waves of death engulfed me; the currents of chaos overwhelmed me.
[2Sam 22:6] The ropes of Sheol tightened around me; the snares of death trapped me.
[2Sam 22:7] In my distress I called to the Lord; I called to my God. From his heavenly temple he heard my voice; he listened to my cry for help.
[2Sam 22:8] The earth heaved and shook; the foundations of the sky trembled. They heaved because he was angry.
[2Sam 22:9] Smoke ascended from his nose; fire devoured as it came from his mouth; he hurled down fiery coals.
[2Sam 22:10] He made the sky sink as he descended; a thick cloud was under his feet.
[2Sam 22:11] He mounted a winged angel and flew; he glided on the wings of the wind.
[2Sam 22:12] He shrouded himself in darkness, in thick rain clouds.
[2Sam 22:13] From the brightness in front of him came coals of fire.
[2Sam 22:14] The Lord thundered from the sky; the Most High shouted loudly.
[2Sam 22:15] He shot arrows and scattered them, lightning and routed them.
[2Sam 22:16] The depths of the sea were exposed; the inner regions of the world were uncovered by the Lord’s battle cry, by the powerful breath from his nose.
[2Sam 22:17] He reached down from above and grabbed me; he pulled me from the surging water.
[2Sam 22:18] He rescued me from my strong enemy, from those who hate me, for they were too strong for me.
[2Sam 22:19] They confronted me in my day of calamity, but the Lord helped me.
[2Sam 22:20] He brought me out into a wide open place; he delivered me because he was pleased with me.
[2Sam 22:21] The Lord repaid me for my godly deeds; he rewarded my blameless behavior.
[2Sam 22:22] For I have obeyed the Lord’s commands; I have not rebelled against my God.
[2Sam 22:23] For I am aware of all his regulations, and I do not reject his rules.
[2Sam 22:24] I was blameless before him; I kept myself from sinning.
[2Sam 22:25] The Lord rewarded me for my godly deeds; he took notice of my blameless behavior.
[2Sam 22:26] You prove to be loyal to one who is faithful; you prove to be trustworthy to one who is innocent.
[2Sam 22:27] You prove to be reliable to one who is blameless, but you prove to be deceptive to one who is perverse.
[2Sam 22:28] You deliver oppressed people, but you watch the proud and bring them down.
[2Sam 22:29] Indeed, you are my lamp, Lord. The Lord illumines the darkness around me.
[2Sam 22:30] Indeed, with your help I can charge against an army; by my God’s power I can jump over a wall.
[2Sam 22:31] The one true God acts in a faithful manner; the Lord’s promise is reliable; he is a shield to all who take shelter in him.
[2Sam 22:32] Indeed, who is God besides the Lord? Who is a protector besides our God?
[2Sam 22:33] The one true God is my mighty refuge; he removes the obstacles in my way.
[2Sam 22:34] He gives me the agility of a deer; he enables me to negotiate the rugged terrain.
[2Sam 22:35] He trains my hands for battle; my arms can bend even the strongest bow.
[2Sam 22:36] You give me your protective shield; your willingness to help enables me to prevail.
[2Sam 22:37] You widen my path; my feet do not slip.
[2Sam 22:38] I chase my enemies and destroy them; I do not turn back until I wipe them out.
[2Sam 22:39] I wipe them out and beat them to death; they cannot get up; they fall at my feet.
[2Sam 22:40] You give me strength for battle; you make my foes kneel before me.
[2Sam 22:41] You make my enemies retreat; I destroy those who hate me.
[2Sam 22:42] They cry out, but there is no one to help them; they cry out to the Lord, but he does not answer them.
[2Sam 22:43] I grind them as fine as the dust of the ground; I crush them and stomp on them like clay in the streets.
[2Sam 22:44] You rescue me from a hostile army; you preserve me as a leader of nations; people over whom I had no authority are now my subjects.
[2Sam 22:45] Foreigners are powerless before me; when they hear of my exploits, they submit to me.
[2Sam 22:46] Foreigners lose their courage; they shake with fear as they leave their strongholds.
[2Sam 22:47] The Lord is alive! My protector is praiseworthy! The God who delivers me is exalted as king!
[2Sam 22:48] The one true God completely vindicates me; he makes nations submit to me.
[2Sam 22:49] He delivers me from my enemies; you snatch me away from those who attack me; you rescue me from violent men.
[2Sam 22:50] So I will give you thanks, O Lord, before the nations! I will sing praises to you.
[2Sam 22:51] He gives his king magnificent victories; he is faithful to his chosen ruler, to David and to his descendants forever!”
