# Ezekiel 13

## False Prophets Condemned
¶[Ezek 13:1] Then the Lord’s message came to me:
[Ezek 13:2] “Son of man, prophesy against the prophets of Israel who are now prophesying. Say to the prophets who prophesy from their imagination: ‘Listen to the Lord’s message!
[Ezek 13:3] This is what the Sovereign Lord says: Woe to the foolish prophets who follow their own spirit but have seen nothing!
[Ezek 13:4] Your prophets have become like jackals among the ruins, O Israel.
[Ezek 13:5] You have not gone up in the breaks in the wall, nor repaired a wall for the house of Israel that it would stand strong in the battle on the day of the Lord.
[Ezek 13:6] They see delusion and their omens are a lie. They say, “the Lord declares,” though the Lord has not sent them; yet they expect their word to be confirmed.
[Ezek 13:7] Have you not seen a false vision and announced a lying omen when you say, “the Lord declares,” although I myself never spoke?

¶[Ezek 13:8] “‘Therefore, this is what the Sovereign Lord says: Because you have spoken false words and forecast delusion, look, I am against you, declares the Sovereign Lord.
[Ezek 13:9] My hand will be against the prophets who see delusion and announce lying omens. They will not be included in the council of my people, nor be written in the registry of the house of Israel, nor enter the land of Israel. Then you will know that I am the Sovereign Lord.
[Ezek 13:10] “‘This is because they have led my people astray saying, “All is well,” when things are not well. When anyone builds a wall without mortar, they coat it with whitewash.
[Ezek 13:11] Tell the ones who coat it with whitewash that it will fall. When there is a deluge of rain, hailstones will fall and a violent wind will break out.
[Ezek 13:12] When the wall has collapsed, people will ask you, “Where is the whitewash you coated it with?”
[Ezek 13:13] “‘Therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord says: In my rage I will make a violent wind break out. In my anger there will be a deluge of rain and hailstones in destructive fury.
[Ezek 13:14] I will break down the wall you coated with whitewash and knock it to the ground so that its foundation is exposed. When it falls you will be destroyed beneath it, and you will know that I am the Lord.
[Ezek 13:15] I will vent my rage against the wall, and against those who coated it with whitewash. Then I will say to you, “The wall is no more and those who whitewashed it are no more –
[Ezek 13:16] those prophets of Israel who would prophesy about Jerusalem and would see visions of peace for it, when there was no peace,” declares the Sovereign Lord.’

¶[Ezek 13:17] “As for you, son of man, turn toward the daughters of your people who are prophesying from their imagination. Prophesy against them
[Ezek 13:18] and say ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says: Woe to those who sew bands on all their wrists and make headbands for heads of every size to entrap people’s lives! Will you entrap my people’s lives, yet preserve your own lives?
[Ezek 13:19] You have profaned me among my people for handfuls of barley and scraps of bread. You have put to death people who should not die and kept alive those who should not live by your lies to my people, who listen to lies!

¶[Ezek 13:20] “‘Therefore, this is what the Sovereign Lord says: Take note that I am against your wristbands with which you entrap people’s lives like birds. I will tear them from your arms and will release the people’s lives, which you hunt like birds.
[Ezek 13:21] I will tear off your headbands and rescue my people from your power; they will no longer be prey in your hands. Then you will know that I am the Lord.
[Ezek 13:22] This is because you have disheartened the righteous person with lies (although I have not grieved him), and because you have encouraged the wicked person not to turn from his evil conduct and preserve his life.
[Ezek 13:23] Therefore you will no longer see false visions and practice divination. I will rescue my people from your power, and you will know that I am the Lord.’”
