# Ezekiel 22

## Jerusalem's Sins Depicted
¶[Ezek 22:1] The Lord’s message came to me:
[Ezek 22:2] “As for you, son of man, are you willing to pronounce judgment, are you willing to pronounce judgment on the bloody city? Then confront her with all her abominable deeds!
[Ezek 22:3] Then say, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says: O city, who spills blood within herself (which brings on her doom), and who makes herself idols (which results in impurity),
[Ezek 22:4] you are guilty because of the blood you shed and defiled by the idols you made. You have hastened the day of your doom; the end of your years has come. Therefore I will make you an object of scorn to the nations, an object to be mocked by all lands.
[Ezek 22:5] Those both near and far from you will mock you, you with your bad reputation, full of turmoil.

¶[Ezek 22:6] “‘See how each of the princes of Israel living within you has used his authority to shed blood.
[Ezek 22:7] They have treated father and mother with contempt within you; they have oppressed the resident foreigner among you; they have wronged the orphan and the widow within you.
[Ezek 22:8] You have despised my holy things and desecrated my Sabbaths!
[Ezek 22:9] Slanderous men shed blood within you. Those who live within you eat pagan sacrifices on the mountains; they commit obscene acts among you.
[Ezek 22:10] They have sexual relations with their father’s wife within you; they violate women during their menstrual period within you.
[Ezek 22:11] One commits an abominable act with his neighbor’s wife; another obscenely defiles his daughter-in-law; another violates his sister – his father’s daughter – within you.
[Ezek 22:12] They take bribes within you to shed blood. You engage in usury and charge interest; you extort money from your neighbors. You have forgotten me, declares the Sovereign Lord.

¶[Ezek 22:13] “‘See, I strike my hands together at the dishonest profit you have made, and at the bloodshed they have done among you.
[Ezek 22:14] Can your heart endure, or can your hands be strong when I deal with you? I, the Lord, have spoken, and I will do it!
[Ezek 22:15] I will scatter you among the nations and disperse you among various countries; I will remove your impurity from you.
[Ezek 22:16] You will be profaned within yourself in the sight of the nations; then you will know that I am the Lord.’”

¶[Ezek 22:17] The Lord’s message came to me:
[Ezek 22:18] “Son of man, the house of Israel has become slag to me. All of them are like bronze, tin, iron, and lead in the furnace; they are the worthless slag of silver.
[Ezek 22:19] Therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord says: ‘Because all of you have become slag, look out! – I am about to gather you in the middle of Jerusalem.
[Ezek 22:20] As silver, bronze, iron, lead, and tin are gathered in a furnace so that the fire can blow on them to melt them, so I will gather you in my anger and in my rage. I will deposit you there and melt you.
[Ezek 22:21] I will gather you and blow on you with the fire of my fury, and you will be melted in it.
[Ezek 22:22] As silver is melted in a furnace, so you will be melted in it, and you will know that I, the Lord, have poured out my anger on you.’”

¶[Ezek 22:23] The Lord’s message came to me:
[Ezek 22:24] “Son of man, say to her: ‘You are a land that receives no rain or showers in the day of my anger.’
[Ezek 22:25] Her princes within her are like a roaring lion tearing its prey; they have devoured lives. They take away riches and valuable things; they have made many women widows within it.
[Ezek 22:26] Her priests abuse my law and have desecrated my holy things. They do not distinguish between the holy and the profane, or recognize any distinction between the unclean and the clean. They ignore my Sabbaths and I am profaned in their midst.
[Ezek 22:27] Her officials are like wolves in her midst rending their prey – shedding blood and destroying lives – so they can get dishonest profit.
[Ezek 22:28] Her prophets coat their messages with whitewash. They see false visions and announce lying omens for them, saying, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says,’ when the Lord has not spoken.
[Ezek 22:29] The people of the land have practiced extortion and committed robbery. They have wronged the poor and needy; they have oppressed the resident foreigner and denied them justice.
[Ezek 22:30] “I looked for a man from among them who would repair the wall and stand in the gap before me on behalf of the land, so that I would not destroy it, but I found no one.
[Ezek 22:31] So I have poured my anger on them, and destroyed them with the fire of my fury. I hereby repay them for what they have done, declares the Sovereign Lord.”
