# Ezekiel 25

## Judgment on Ammon
¶[Ezek 25:1] The Lord’s message came to me:
[Ezek 25:2] “Son of man, turn toward the Ammonites and prophesy against them.
[Ezek 25:3] Say to the Ammonites, ‘Hear the word of the Sovereign Lord: This is what the Sovereign Lord says: You said “Aha!” about my sanctuary when it was desecrated, about the land of Israel when it was made desolate, and about the house of Judah when they went into exile.
[Ezek 25:4] So take note, I am about to make you slaves of the tribes of the east. They will make camps among you and pitch their tents among you. They will eat your fruit and drink your milk.
[Ezek 25:5] I will make Rabbah a pasture for camels and Ammon a resting place for sheep. Then you will know that I am the Lord.
[Ezek 25:6] For this is what the Sovereign Lord says: Because you clapped your hands, stamped your feet, and rejoiced with intense scorn over the land of Israel,
[Ezek 25:7] take note, I have stretched out my hand against you, and I will hand you over as plunder to the nations. I will cut you off from the peoples and make you perish from the lands. I will destroy you; then you will know that I am the Lord.’”

## Judgment on Moab
¶[Ezek 25:8] “This is what the Sovereign Lord says: ‘Moab and Seir say, “Look, the house of Judah is like all the other nations.”
[Ezek 25:9] So look, I am about to open up Moab’s flank, eliminating the cities, including its frontier cities, the beauty of the land – Beth Jeshimoth, Baal Meon, and Kiriathaim.
[Ezek 25:10] I will hand it over, along with the Ammonites, to the tribes of the east, so that the Ammonites will no longer be remembered among the nations.
[Ezek 25:11] I will execute judgments against Moab. Then they will know that I am the Lord.’”

## Judgment on Edom
¶[Ezek 25:12] “This is what the Sovereign Lord says: ‘Edom has taken vengeance against the house of Judah; they have made themselves fully culpable by taking vengeance on them.
[Ezek 25:13] So this is what the Sovereign Lord says: I will stretch out my hand against Edom, and I will kill the people and animals within her, and I will make her desolate; from Teman to Dedan they will die by the sword.
[Ezek 25:14] I will exact my vengeance upon Edom by the hand of my people Israel. They will carry out in Edom my anger and rage; they will experience my vengeance, declares the Sovereign Lord.’”

## Judgment on Philistia
¶[Ezek 25:15] “This is what the Sovereign Lord says: ‘The Philistines have exacted merciless revenge, showing intense scorn in their effort to destroy Judah with unrelenting hostility.
[Ezek 25:16] So this is what the Sovereign Lord says: Take note, I am about to stretch out my hand against the Philistines. I will kill the Cherethites and destroy those who remain on the seacoast.
[Ezek 25:17] I will exact great vengeance upon them with angry rebukes. Then they will know that I am the Lord, when I exact my vengeance upon them.’”
