# Ezekiel 35

## Against Edom Again
¶[Ezek 35:1] The Lord’s message came to me:
[Ezek 35:2] “Son of man, turn toward Mount Seir, and prophesy against it.
[Ezek 35:3] Say to it, ‘This is what the Sovereign Lord says: “‘Look, I am against you, Mount Seir; I will stretch out my hand against you and turn you into a desolate ruin.
[Ezek 35:4] I will lay waste your cities; and you will become desolate. Then you will know that I am the Lord!
[Ezek 35:5] “‘You have shown unrelenting hostility and poured the people of Israel onto the blades of a sword at the time of their calamity, at the time of their final punishment.
[Ezek 35:6] Therefore, as surely as I live, declares the Sovereign Lord, I will subject you to bloodshed, and bloodshed will pursue you. Since you did not hate bloodshed, bloodshed will pursue you.
[Ezek 35:7] I will turn Mount Seir into a desolate ruin; I will cut off from it the one who passes through or returns.
[Ezek 35:8] I will fill its mountains with its dead; on your hills and in your valleys and in all your ravines, those killed by the sword will fall.
[Ezek 35:9] I will turn you into a perpetual desolation, and your cities will not be inhabited. Then you will know that I am the Lord.

¶[Ezek 35:10] “‘You said, “These two nations, these two lands will be mine, and we will possess them,” – although the Lord was there –
[Ezek 35:11] therefore, as surely as I live, declares the Sovereign Lord, I will deal with you according to your anger, and according to your envy, by which you acted spitefully against them. I will reveal myself to them when I judge you.
[Ezek 35:12] Then you will know that I, the Lord, have heard all the insults you spoke against the mountains of Israel, saying, “They are desolate, they have been given to us for food.”
[Ezek 35:13] You exalted yourselves against me with your speech and hurled many insults against me – I have heard them all!
[Ezek 35:14] This is what the Sovereign Lord says: While the whole earth rejoices, I will turn you into a desolation.
[Ezek 35:15] As you rejoiced over the inheritance of the house of Israel because it was desolate, so will I deal with you – you will be desolate, Mount Seir, and all of Edom – all of it! Then they will know that I am the Lord.’”
