# Ezekiel 47

## The River of Life
¶[Ezek 47:1] Then he brought me back to the entrance of the temple. I noticed that water was flowing from under the threshold of the temple toward the east (for the temple faced east). The water was flowing down from under the right side of the temple, from south of the altar.
[Ezek 47:2] He led me out by way of the north gate and brought me around the outside of the outer gate that faces toward the east; I noticed that the water was trickling out from the south side.

¶[Ezek 47:3] When the man went out toward the east with a measuring line in his hand, he measured 1,750 feet, and then he led me through water, which was ankle deep.
[Ezek 47:4] Again he measured 1,750 feet and led me through the water, which was now knee deep. Once more he measured 1,750 feet and led me through the water, which was waist deep.
[Ezek 47:5] Again he measured 1,750 feet and it was a river I could not cross, for the water had risen; it was deep enough to swim in, a river that could not be crossed.

¶[Ezek 47:6] He said to me, “Son of man, have you seen this?” Then he led me back to the bank of the river.
[Ezek 47:7] When I had returned, I noticed a vast number of trees on the banks of the river, on both sides.
[Ezek 47:8] He said to me, “These waters go out toward the eastern region and flow down into the rift valley; when they enter the Dead Sea, where the sea is stagnant, the waters become fresh.
[Ezek 47:9] Every living creature which swarms where the river flows will live; there will be many fish, for these waters flow there. It will become fresh and everything will live where the river flows.
[Ezek 47:10] Fishermen will stand beside it; from En Gedi to En Eglaim they will spread nets. They will catch many kinds of fish, like the fish of the Great Sea.
[Ezek 47:11] But its swamps and its marshes will not become fresh; they will remain salty.
[Ezek 47:12] On both sides of the river’s banks, every kind of tree will grow for food. Their leaves will not wither nor will their fruit fail, but they will bear fruit every month, because their water source flows from the sanctuary. Their fruit will be for food and their leaves for healing.”

## Division of the Land among the Tribes
¶[Ezek 47:13] This is what the Sovereign Lord says: “Here are the borders you will observe as you allot the land to the twelve tribes of Israel. (Joseph will have two portions.)
[Ezek 47:14] You must divide it equally just as I vowed to give it to your forefathers; this land will be assigned as your inheritance.

¶[Ezek 47:15] “This will be the border of the land: On the north side, from the Great Sea by way of Hethlon to the entrance of Zedad;
[Ezek 47:16] Hamath, Berothah, Sibraim, which is between the border of Damascus and the border of Hamath, as far as Hazer-hattikon, which is on the border of Hauran.
[Ezek 47:17] The border will run from the sea to Hazar-enan, at the border of Damascus, and on the north is the border of Hamath. This is the north side.
[Ezek 47:18] On the east side, between Hauran and Damascus, and between Gilead and the land of Israel, will be the Jordan. You will measure from the border to the eastern sea. This is the east side.
[Ezek 47:19] On the south side it will run from Tamar to the waters of Meribath Kadesh, the river, to the Great Sea. This is the south side.
[Ezek 47:20] On the west side the Great Sea will be the boundary to a point opposite Lebo Hamath. This is the west side.

¶[Ezek 47:21] “This is how you will divide this land for yourselves among the tribes of Israel.
[Ezek 47:22] You must allot it as an inheritance among yourselves and for the resident foreigners who live among you, who have fathered sons among you. You must treat them as native-born among the people of Israel; they will be allotted an inheritance with you among the tribes of Israel.
[Ezek 47:23] In whatever tribe the resident foreigner lives, there you will give him his inheritance,” declares the Sovereign Lord.
