# Nehemiah 11

## Casting lots for Jerusalem
¶`Neh 11:1` So the leaders of the people settled in Jerusalem, while the rest of the people cast lots to bring one out of every ten to settle in Jerusalem, the holy city, while the other nine remained in other cities.
`Neh 11:2` The people gave their blessing on all the men who volunteered to settle in Jerusalem.

## List of residents in the city
¶`Neh 11:3` These are the provincial leaders who settled in Jerusalem. (While other Israelites, the priests, the Levites, the temple attendants, and the sons of the servants of Solomon settled in the cities of Judah, each on his own property in their cities,
`Neh 11:4` some of the descendants of Judah and some of the descendants of Benjamin settled in Jerusalem.) Of the descendants of Judah: Athaiah son of Uzziah, the son of Zechariah, the son of Amariah, the son of Shephatiah, the son of Mahalalel, from the descendants of Perez;
`Neh 11:5` and Maaseiah son of Baruch, the son of Col-Hozeh, the son of Hazaiah, the son of Adaiah, the son of Joiarib, the son of Zechariah, from the descendants of Shelah.
`Neh 11:6` The sum total of the descendants of Perez who were settling in Jerusalem was 468 exceptional men.

¶`Neh 11:7` These are the descendants of Benjamin: Sallu son of Meshullam, the son of Joed, the son of Pedaiah, the son of Kolaiah, the son of Maaseiah, the son of Ithiel, the son of Jeshaiah,
`Neh 11:8` and his followers, Gabbai and Sallai – 928 in all.
`Neh 11:9` Joel son of Zicri was the officer in charge of them, and Judah son of Hassenuah was second-in-command over the city.

¶`Neh 11:10` From the priests: Jedaiah son of Joiarib, Jakin,
`Neh 11:11` Seraiah son of Hilkiah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Zadok, the son of Meraioth, the son of Ahitub, supervisor in the temple of God,
`Neh 11:12` and their colleagues who were carrying out work for the temple – 822; and Adaiah son of Jeroham, the son of Pelaliah, the son of Amzi, the son of Zechariah, the son of Pashhur, the son of Malkijah,
`Neh 11:13` and his colleagues who were heads of families – 242; and Amashsai son of Azarel, the son of Ahzai, the son of Meshillemoth, the son of Immer,
`Neh 11:14` and his colleagues who were exceptional men – 128. The officer over them was Zabdiel the son of Haggedolim.

¶`Neh 11:15` From the Levites: Shemaiah son of Hasshub, the son of Azrikam, the son of Hashabiah, the son of Bunni;
`Neh 11:16` Shabbethai and Jozabad, leaders of the Levites, were in charge of the external work for the temple of God;
`Neh 11:17` Mattaniah son of Mica, the son of Zabdi, the son of Asaph, the praise leader who led in thanksgiving and prayer; Bakbukiah, second among his colleagues; and Abda son of Shammua, the son of Galal, the son of Jeduthun.
`Neh 11:18` The sum total of the Levites in the holy city was 284.

¶`Neh 11:19` And the gatekeepers: Akkub, Talmon and their colleagues who were guarding the gates – 172.
`Neh 11:20` And the rest of the Israelites, with the priests and the Levites, were in all the cities of Judah, each on his own property.
`Neh 11:21` The temple attendants were living on Ophel, and Ziha and Gishpa were over them.

¶`Neh 11:22` The overseer of the Levites in Jerusalem was Uzzi son of Bani, the son of Hashabiah, the son of Mattaniah, the son of Mica. He was one of Asaph’s descendants who were the singers responsible for the service of the temple of God.
`Neh 11:23` For they were under royal orders which determined their activity day by day.
`Neh 11:24` Pethahiah son of Meshezabel, one of the descendants of Zerah son of Judah, was an adviser to the king in every matter pertaining to the people.

## Other towns and settlements
¶`Neh 11:25` As for the settlements with their fields, some of the people of Judah settled in Kiriath Arba and its neighboring villages, in Dibon and its villages, in Jekabzeel and its settlements,
`Neh 11:26` in Jeshua, in Moladah, in Beth Pelet,
`Neh 11:27` in Hazar Shual, in Beer Sheba and its villages,
`Neh 11:28` in Ziklag, in Meconah and its villages,
`Neh 11:29` in En Rimmon, in Zorah, in Jarmuth,
`Neh 11:30` Zanoah, Adullam and their settlements, in Lachish and its fields, and in Azekah and its villages. So they were encamped from Beer Sheba to the Valley of Hinnom.
`Neh 11:31` Some of the descendants of Benjamin settled in Geba, Micmash, Aija, Bethel and its villages,
`Neh 11:32` in Anathoth, Nob, and Ananiah,
`Neh 11:33` in Hazor, Ramah, and Gittaim,
`Neh 11:34` in Hadid, Zeboim, and Neballat,
`Neh 11:35` in Lod, Ono, and the Valley of the Craftsmen.
`Neh 11:36` Some of the Judean divisions of the Levites settled in Benjamin.
