# Nehemiah 12

## Lists of priests and Levites
¶[Neh 12:1] These are the priests and Levites who returned with Zerubbabel son of Shealtiel and Jeshua: Seraiah, Jeremiah, Ezra,
[Neh 12:2] Amariah, Malluch, Hattush,
[Neh 12:3] Shecaniah, Rehum, Meremoth,
[Neh 12:4] Iddo, Ginnethon, Abijah,
[Neh 12:5] Mijamin, Moadiah, Bilgah,
[Neh 12:6] Shemaiah, Joiarib, Jedaiah,
[Neh 12:7] Sallu, Amok, Hilkiah, and Jedaiah. These were the leaders of the priests and their colleagues in the days of Jeshua.

¶[Neh 12:8] And the Levites: Jeshua, Binnui, Kadmiel, Sherebiah, Judah, and Mattaniah, who together with his colleagues was in charge of the songs of thanksgiving.
[Neh 12:9] Bakbukiah and Unni, their colleagues, stood opposite them in the services.
[Neh 12:10] Jeshua was the father of Joiakim, Joiakim was the father of Eliashib, Eliashib was the father of Joiada,
[Neh 12:11] Joiada was the father of Jonathan, and Jonathan was the father of Jaddua.

¶[Neh 12:12] In the days of Joiakim, these were the priests who were leaders of the families: of Seraiah, Meraiah; of Jeremiah, Hananiah;
[Neh 12:13] of Ezra, Meshullam; of Amariah, Jehohanan;
[Neh 12:14] of Malluch, Jonathan; of Shecaniah, Joseph;
[Neh 12:15] of Harim, Adna; of Meremoth, Helkai;
[Neh 12:16] of Iddo, Zechariah; of Ginnethon, Meshullam;
[Neh 12:17] of Abijah, Zicri; of Miniamin and of Moadiah, Piltai;
[Neh 12:18] of Bilgah, Shammua; of Shemaiah, Jehonathan;
[Neh 12:19] of Joiarib, Mattenai; of Jedaiah, Uzzi;
[Neh 12:20] of Sallu, Kallai; of Amok, Eber;
[Neh 12:21] of Hilkiah, Hashabiah; of Jedaiah, Nethanel.

¶[Neh 12:22] As for the Levites, in the days of Eliashib, Joiada, Johanan and Jaddua the heads of families were recorded, as were the priests during the reign of Darius the Persian.
[Neh 12:23] The descendants of Levi were recorded in the Book of the Chronicles as heads of families up to the days of Johanan son of Eliashib.
[Neh 12:24] And the leaders of the Levites were Hashabiah, Sherebiah, Jeshua son of Kadmiel, and their colleagues, who stood opposite them to offer praise and thanks, one contingent corresponding to the other, as specified by David the man of God.
[Neh 12:25] Mattaniah, Bakbukiah, Obadiah, Meshullam, Talmon, and Akkub were gatekeepers who were guarding the storerooms at the gates.
[Neh 12:26] These all served in the days of Joiakim son of Jeshua, the son of Jozadak, and in the days of Nehemiah the governor and of Ezra the priestly scribe.

## Dedication of the wall
¶[Neh 12:27] At the dedication of the wall of Jerusalem, they sought out the Levites from all the places they lived to bring them to Jerusalem to celebrate the dedication joyfully with songs of thanksgiving and songs accompanied by cymbals, harps, and lyres.
[Neh 12:28] The singers were also assembled from the district around Jerusalem and from the settlements of the Netophathites
[Neh 12:29] and from Beth Gilgal and from the fields of Geba and Azmaveth, for the singers had built settlements for themselves around Jerusalem.
[Neh 12:30] When the priests and Levites had purified themselves, they purified the people, the gates, and the wall.

¶[Neh 12:31] I brought the leaders of Judah up on top of the wall, and I appointed two large choirs to give thanks. One was to proceed on the top of the wall southward toward the Dung Gate.
[Neh 12:32] Going after them were Hoshaiah, half the leaders of Judah,
[Neh 12:33] Azariah, Ezra, Meshullam,
[Neh 12:34] Judah, Benjamin, Shemaiah, Jeremiah,
[Neh 12:35] some of the priests with trumpets, Zechariah son of Jonathan, the son of Shemaiah, the son of Mattaniah, the son of Micaiah, the son of Zaccur, the son of Asaph,
[Neh 12:36] and his colleagues – Shemaiah, Azarel, Milalai, Gilalai, Maai, Nethanel, Judah, and Hanani – with musical instruments of David the man of God. (Ezra the scribe led them.)
[Neh 12:37] They went over the Fountain Gate and continued directly up the steps of the City of David on the ascent to the wall. They passed the house of David and continued on to the Water Gate toward the east.

¶[Neh 12:38] The second choir was proceeding in the opposite direction. I followed them, along with half the people, on top of the wall, past the Tower of the Ovens to the Broad Wall,
[Neh 12:39] over the Ephraim Gate, the Jeshanah Gate, the Fish Gate, the Tower of Hananel, and the Tower of the Hundred, to the Sheep Gate. They stopped at the Gate of the Guard.
[Neh 12:40] Then the two choirs that gave thanks took their stations in the temple of God. I did also, along with half the officials with me,
[Neh 12:41] and the priests – Eliakim, Maaseiah, Miniamin, Micaiah, Elioenai, Zechariah, and Hananiah, with their trumpets –
[Neh 12:42] and also Maaseiah, Shemaiah, Eleazar, Uzzi, Jehohanan, Malkijah, Elam, and Ezer. The choirs sang loudly under the direction of Jezrahiah.
[Neh 12:43] And on that day they offered great sacrifices and rejoiced, for God had given them great joy. The women and children also rejoiced. The rejoicing in Jerusalem could be heard from far away.

## Organization of the Temple services
¶[Neh 12:44] On that day men were appointed over the storerooms for the contributions, first fruits, and tithes, to gather into them from the fields of the cities the portions prescribed by the law for the priests and the Levites, for the people of Judah took delight in the priests and Levites who were ministering.
[Neh 12:45] They performed the service of their God and the service of purification, along with the singers and gatekeepers, according to the commandment of David and his son Solomon.
[Neh 12:46] For long ago, in the days of David and Asaph, there had been directors for the singers and for the songs of praise and thanks to God.
[Neh 12:47] So in the days of Zerubbabel and in the days of Nehemiah, all Israel was contributing the portions for the singers and gatekeepers, according to the daily need. They also set aside the portion for the Levites, and the Levites set aside the portion for the descendants of Aaron.
