# Luke 15

## Parables of the lost sheep, lost coin and prodigal son
¶[Luke 15:1] Now all the tax collectors and sinners were coming to hear him.
[Luke 15:2] But the Pharisees and the experts in the law were complaining, “This man welcomes sinners and eats with them.”

¶[Luke 15:3] So Jesus told them this parable:
[Luke 15:4] “Which one of you, if he has a hundred sheep and loses one of them, would not leave the ninety-nine in the open pasture and go look for the one that is lost until he finds it?
[Luke 15:5] Then when he has found it, he places it on his shoulders, rejoicing.
[Luke 15:6] Returning home, he calls together his friends and neighbors, telling them, ‘Rejoice with me, because I have found my sheep that was lost.’
[Luke 15:7] I tell you, in the same way there will be more joy in heaven over one sinner who repents than over ninety-nine righteous people who have no need to repent.

¶[Luke 15:8] “Or what woman, if she has ten silver coins and loses one of them, does not light a lamp, sweep the house, and search thoroughly until she finds it?
[Luke 15:9] Then when she has found it, she calls together her friends and neighbors, saying, ‘Rejoice with me, for I have found the coin that I had lost.’
[Luke 15:10] In the same way, I tell you, there is joy in the presence of God’s angels over one sinner who repents.”

¶[Luke 15:11] Then Jesus said, “A man had two sons.
[Luke 15:12] The younger of them said to his father, ‘Father, give me the share of the estate that will belong to me.’ So he divided his assets between them.
[Luke 15:13] After a few days, the younger son gathered together all he had and left on a journey to a distant country, and there he squandered his wealth with a wild lifestyle.
[Luke 15:14] Then after he had spent everything, a severe famine took place in that country, and he began to be in need.
[Luke 15:15] So he went and worked for one of the citizens of that country, who sent him to his fields to feed pigs.
[Luke 15:16] He was longing to eat the carob pods the pigs were eating, but no one gave him anything.
[Luke 15:17] But when he came to his senses he said, ‘How many of my father’s hired workers have food enough to spare, but here I am dying from hunger!
[Luke 15:18] I will get up and go to my father and say to him, “Father, I have sinned against heaven and against you.
[Luke 15:19] I am no longer worthy to be called your son; treat me like one of your hired workers.”’
[Luke 15:20] So he got up and went to his father. But while he was still a long way from home his father saw him, and his heart went out to him; he ran and hugged his son and kissed him.
[Luke 15:21] Then his son said to him, ‘Father, I have sinned against heaven and against you; I am no longer worthy to be called your son.’
[Luke 15:22] But the father said to his slaves, ‘Hurry! Bring the best robe, and put it on him! Put a ring on his finger and sandals on his feet!
[Luke 15:23] Bring the fattened calf and kill it! Let us eat and celebrate,
[Luke 15:24] because this son of mine was dead, and is alive again – he was lost and is found!’ So they began to celebrate.
[Luke 15:25] “Now his older son was in the field. As he came and approached the house, he heard music and dancing.
[Luke 15:26] So he called one of the slaves and asked what was happening.
[Luke 15:27] The slave replied, ‘Your brother has returned, and your father has killed the fattened calf because he got his son back safe and sound.’
[Luke 15:28] But the older son became angry and refused to go in. His father came out and appealed to him,
[Luke 15:29] but he answered his father, ‘Look! These many years I have worked like a slave for you, and I never disobeyed your commands. Yet you never gave me even a goat so that I could celebrate with my friends!
[Luke 15:30] But when this son of yours came back, who has devoured your assets with prostitutes, you killed the fattened calf for him!’
[Luke 15:31] Then the father said to him, ‘Son, you are always with me, and everything that belongs to me is yours.
[Luke 15:32] It was appropriate to celebrate and be glad, for your brother was dead, and is alive; he was lost and is found.’”
