# Luke 17

## Teachings on sin, faith, and duty
¶[Luke 17:1] Jesus said to his disciples, “Stumbling blocks are sure to come, but woe to the one through whom they come!
[Luke 17:2] It would be better for him to have a millstone tied around his neck and be thrown into the sea than for him to cause one of these little ones to sin.
[Luke 17:3] Watch yourselves! If your brother sins, rebuke him. If he repents, forgive him.
[Luke 17:4] Even if he sins against you seven times in a day, and seven times returns to you saying, ‘I repent,’ you must forgive him.”

¶[Luke 17:5] The apostles said to the Lord, “Increase our faith!”
[Luke 17:6] So the Lord replied, “If you had faith the size of a mustard seed, you could say to this black mulberry tree, ‘Be pulled out by the roots and planted in the sea,’ and it would obey you.
[Luke 17:7] “Would any one of you say to your slave who comes in from the field after plowing or shepherding sheep, ‘Come at once and sit down for a meal’?
[Luke 17:8] Won’t the master instead say to him, ‘Get my dinner ready, and make yourself ready to serve me while I eat and drink. Then you may eat and drink’?
[Luke 17:9] He won’t thank the slave because he did what he was told, will he?
[Luke 17:10] So you too, when you have done everything you were commanded to do, should say, ‘We are slaves undeserving of special praise; we have only done what was our duty.’”

## The healing of ten lepers
¶[Luke 17:11] Now on the way to Jerusalem, Jesus was passing along between Samaria and Galilee.
[Luke 17:12] As he was entering a village, ten men with leprosy met him. They stood at a distance,
[Luke 17:13] raised their voices and said, “Jesus, Master, have mercy on us.”
[Luke 17:14] When he saw them he said, “Go and show yourselves to the priests.” And as they went along, they were cleansed.
[Luke 17:15] Then one of them, when he saw he was healed, turned back, praising God with a loud voice.
[Luke 17:16] He fell with his face to the ground at Jesus’ feet and thanked him. (Now he was a Samaritan.)
[Luke 17:17] Then Jesus said, “Were not ten cleansed? Where are the other nine?
[Luke 17:18] Was no one found to turn back and give praise to God except this foreigner?”
[Luke 17:19] Then he said to the man, “Get up and go your way. Your faith has made you well.”

## The coming of the Kingdom
¶[Luke 17:20] Now at one point the Pharisees asked Jesus when the kingdom of God was coming, so he answered, “The kingdom of God is not coming with signs to be observed,
[Luke 17:21] nor will they say, ‘Look, here it is!’ or ‘There!’ For indeed, the kingdom of God is in your midst.”

¶[Luke 17:22] Then he said to the disciples, “The days are coming when you will desire to see one of the days of the Son of Man, and you will not see it.
[Luke 17:23] Then people will say to you, ‘Look, there he is!’ or ‘Look, here he is!’ Do not go out or chase after them.
[Luke 17:24] For just like the lightning flashes and lights up the sky from one side to the other, so will the Son of Man be in his day.
[Luke 17:25] But first he must suffer many things and be rejected by this generation.
[Luke 17:26] Just as it was in the days of Noah, so too it will be in the days of the Son of Man.
[Luke 17:27] People were eating, they were drinking, they were marrying, they were being given in marriage – right up to the day Noah entered the ark. Then the flood came and destroyed them all.
[Luke 17:28] Likewise, just as it was in the days of Lot, people were eating, drinking, buying, selling, planting, building;
[Luke 17:29] but on the day Lot went out from Sodom, fire and sulfur rained down from heaven and destroyed them all.
[Luke 17:30] It will be the same on the day the Son of Man is revealed.
[Luke 17:31] On that day, anyone who is on the roof, with his goods in the house, must not come down to take them away, and likewise the person in the field must not turn back.
[Luke 17:32] Remember Lot’s wife!
[Luke 17:33] Whoever tries to keep his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life will preserve it.
[Luke 17:34] I tell you, in that night there will be two people in one bed; one will be taken and the other left.
[Luke 17:35] There will be two women grinding grain together; one will be taken and the other left.”
[Luke 17:37] Then the disciples said to him, “Where, Lord?” He replied to them, “Where the dead body is, there the vultures will gather.”
