# Luke 23

## Jesus' trial before Pilate and Herod
¶[Luke 23:1] Then the whole group of them rose up and brought Jesus before Pilate.
[Luke 23:2] They began to accuse him, saying, “We found this man subverting our nation, forbidding us to pay the tribute tax to Caesar and claiming that he himself is Christ, a king.”
[Luke 23:3] So Pilate asked Jesus, “Are you the king of the Jews?” He replied, “You say so.”
[Luke 23:4] Then Pilate said to the chief priests and the crowds, “I find no basis for an accusation against this man.”
[Luke 23:5] But they persisted in saying, “He incites the people by teaching throughout all Judea. It started in Galilee and ended up here!”
[Luke 23:6] Now when Pilate heard this, he asked whether the man was a Galilean.
[Luke 23:7] When he learned that he was from Herod’s jurisdiction, he sent him over to Herod, who also happened to be in Jerusalem at that time.

¶[Luke 23:8] When Herod saw Jesus, he was very glad, for he had long desired to see him, because he had heard about him and was hoping to see him perform some miraculous sign.
[Luke 23:9] So Herod questioned him at considerable length; Jesus gave him no answer.
[Luke 23:10] The chief priests and the experts in the law were there, vehemently accusing him.
[Luke 23:11] Even Herod with his soldiers treated him with contempt and mocked him. Then, dressing him in elegant clothes, Herod sent him back to Pilate.
[Luke 23:12] That very day Herod and Pilate became friends with each other, for prior to this they had been enemies.

¶[Luke 23:13] Then Pilate called together the chief priests, the leaders, and the people,
[Luke 23:14] and said to them, “You brought me this man as one who was misleading the people. When I examined him before you, I did not find this man guilty of anything you accused him of doing.
[Luke 23:15] Neither did Herod, for he sent him back to us. Look, he has done nothing deserving death.
[Luke 23:16] I will therefore have him flogged and release him.”
[Luke 23:18] But they all shouted out together, “Take this man away! Release Barabbas for us!”
[Luke 23:19] (This was a man who had been thrown into prison for an insurrection started in the city, and for murder.)
[Luke 23:20] Pilate addressed them once again because he wanted to release Jesus.
[Luke 23:21] But they kept on shouting, “Crucify, crucify him!”
[Luke 23:22] A third time he said to them, “Why? What wrong has he done? I have found him guilty of no crime deserving death. I will therefore flog him and release him.”
[Luke 23:23] But they were insistent, demanding with loud shouts that he be crucified. And their shouts prevailed.
[Luke 23:24] So Pilate decided that their demand should be granted.
[Luke 23:25] He released the man they asked for, who had been thrown in prison for insurrection and murder. But he handed Jesus over to their will.

## The crucifixion and death of Jesus
¶[Luke 23:26] As they led him away, they seized Simon of Cyrene, who was coming in from the country. They placed the cross on his back and made him carry it behind Jesus.

¶[Luke 23:27] A great number of the people followed him, among them women who were mourning and wailing for him.
[Luke 23:28] But Jesus turned to them and said, “Daughters of Jerusalem, do not weep for me, but weep for yourselves and for your children.
[Luke 23:29] For this is certain: The days are coming when they will say, ‘Blessed are the barren, the wombs that never bore children, and the breasts that never nursed!’
[Luke 23:30] Then they will begin to say to the mountains, ‘Fall on us!’ and to the hills, ‘Cover us!’
[Luke 23:31] For if such things are done when the wood is green, what will happen when it is dry?”

¶[Luke 23:32] Two other criminals were also led away to be executed with him.

¶[Luke 23:33] So when they came to the place that is called “The Skull,” they crucified him there, along with the criminals, one on his right and one on his left.
[Luke 23:34] [But Jesus said, “Father, forgive them, for they don’t know what they are doing.”] Then they threw dice to divide his clothes.
[Luke 23:35] The people also stood there watching, but the leaders ridiculed him, saying, “He saved others. Let him save himself if he is the Christ of God, his chosen one!”
[Luke 23:36] The soldiers also mocked him, coming up and offering him sour wine,
[Luke 23:37] and saying, “If you are the king of the Jews, save yourself!”
[Luke 23:38] There was also an inscription over him, “This is the king of the Jews.”

¶[Luke 23:39] One of the criminals who was hanging there railed at him, saying, “Aren’t you the Christ? Save yourself and us!”
[Luke 23:40] But the other rebuked him, saying, “Don’t you fear God, since you are under the same sentence of condemnation?
[Luke 23:41] And we rightly so, for we are getting what we deserve for what we did, but this man has done nothing wrong.”
[Luke 23:42] Then he said, “Jesus, remember me when you come in your kingdom.”
[Luke 23:43] And Jesus said to him, “I tell you the truth, today you will be with me in paradise.”

¶[Luke 23:44] It was now about noon, and darkness came over the whole land until three in the afternoon,
[Luke 23:45] because the sun’s light failed. The temple curtain was torn in two.
[Luke 23:46] Then Jesus, calling out with a loud voice, said, “Father, into your hands I commit my spirit!” And after he said this he breathed his last.
[Luke 23:47] Now when the centurion saw what had happened, he praised God and said, “Certainly this man was innocent!”
[Luke 23:48] And all the crowds that had assembled for this spectacle, when they saw what had taken place, returned home beating their breasts.
[Luke 23:49] And all those who knew Jesus stood at a distance, and the women who had followed him from Galilee saw these things.

## The burial of Jesus
¶[Luke 23:50] Now there was a man named Joseph who was a member of the council, a good and righteous man.
[Luke 23:51] (He had not consented to their plan and action.) He was from the Judean town of Arimathea, and was looking forward to the kingdom of God.
[Luke 23:52] He went to Pilate and asked for the body of Jesus.
[Luke 23:53] Then he took it down, wrapped it in a linen cloth, and placed it in a tomb cut out of the rock, where no one had yet been buried.
[Luke 23:54] It was the day of preparation and the Sabbath was beginning.
[Luke 23:55] The women who had accompanied Jesus from Galilee followed, and they saw the tomb and how his body was laid in it.
[Luke 23:56] Then they returned and prepared aromatic spices and perfumes. On the Sabbath they rested according to the commandment.
