# Luke 24

## The resurrection of Jesus
¶[Luke 24:1] Now on the first day of the week, at early dawn, the women went to the tomb, taking the aromatic spices they had prepared.
[Luke 24:2] They found that the stone had been rolled away from the tomb,
[Luke 24:3] but when they went in, they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus.
[Luke 24:4] While they were perplexed about this, suddenly two men stood beside them in dazzling attire.
[Luke 24:5] The women were terribly frightened and bowed their faces to the ground, but the men said to them, “Why do you look for the living among the dead?
[Luke 24:6] He is not here, but has been raised! Remember how he told you, while he was still in Galilee,
[Luke 24:7] that the Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men, and be crucified, and on the third day rise again.”
[Luke 24:8] Then the women remembered his words,
[Luke 24:9] and when they returned from the tomb they told all these things to the eleven and to all the rest.
[Luke 24:10] Now it was Mary Magdalene, Joanna, Mary the mother of James, and the other women with them who told these things to the apostles.
[Luke 24:11] But these words seemed like pure nonsense to them, and they did not believe them.
[Luke 24:12] But Peter got up and ran to the tomb. He bent down and saw only the strips of linen cloth; then he went home, wondering what had happened.

## The walk to Emmaus
¶[Luke 24:13] Now that very day two of them were on their way to a village called Emmaus, about seven miles from Jerusalem.
[Luke 24:14] They were talking to each other about all the things that had happened.
[Luke 24:15] While they were talking and debating these things, Jesus himself approached and began to accompany them
[Luke 24:16] (but their eyes were kept from recognizing him).
[Luke 24:17] Then he said to them, “What are these matters you are discussing so intently as you walk along?” And they stood still, looking sad.
[Luke 24:18] Then one of them, named Cleopas, answered him, “Are you the only visitor to Jerusalem who doesn’t know the things that have happened there in these days?”
[Luke 24:19] He said to them, “What things?” “The things concerning Jesus the Nazarene,” they replied, “a man who, with his powerful deeds and words, proved to be a prophet before God and all the people;
[Luke 24:20] and how our chief priests and leaders handed him over to be condemned to death, and crucified him.
[Luke 24:21] But we had hoped that he was the one who was going to redeem Israel. Not only this, but it is now the third day since these things happened.
[Luke 24:22] Furthermore, some women of our group amazed us. They were at the tomb early this morning,
[Luke 24:23] and when they did not find his body, they came back and said they had seen a vision of angels, who said he was alive.
[Luke 24:24] Then some of those who were with us went to the tomb, and found it just as the women had said, but they did not see him.”
[Luke 24:25] So he said to them, “You foolish people – how slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken!
[Luke 24:26] Wasn’t it necessary for the Christ to suffer these things and enter into his glory?”
[Luke 24:27] Then beginning with Moses and all the prophets, he interpreted to them the things written about himself in all the scriptures.
[Luke 24:28] So they approached the village where they were going. He acted as though he wanted to go farther,
[Luke 24:29] but they urged him, “Stay with us, because it is getting toward evening and the day is almost done.” So he went in to stay with them.
[Luke 24:30] When he had taken his place at the table with them, he took the bread, blessed and broke it, and gave it to them.
[Luke 24:31] At this point their eyes were opened and they recognized him. Then he vanished out of their sight.
[Luke 24:32] They said to each other, “Didn’t our hearts burn within us while he was speaking with us on the road, while he was explaining the scriptures to us?”
[Luke 24:33] So they got up that very hour and returned to Jerusalem. They found the eleven and those with them gathered together
[Luke 24:34] and saying, “The Lord has really risen, and has appeared to Simon!”
[Luke 24:35] Then they told what had happened on the road, and how they recognized him when he broke the bread.

## Jesus appears to the disciples in Jerusalem
¶[Luke 24:36] While they were saying these things, Jesus himself stood among them and said to them, “Peace be with you.”
[Luke 24:37] But they were startled and terrified, thinking they saw a ghost.
[Luke 24:38] Then he said to them, “Why are you frightened, and why do doubts arise in your hearts?
[Luke 24:39] Look at my hands and my feet; it’s me! Touch me and see; a ghost does not have flesh and bones like you see I have.”
[Luke 24:40] When he had said this, he showed them his hands and his feet.
[Luke 24:41] And while they still could not believe it (because of their joy) and were amazed, he said to them, “Do you have anything here to eat?”
[Luke 24:42] So they gave him a piece of broiled fish,
[Luke 24:43] and he took it and ate it in front of them.

¶[Luke 24:44] Then he said to them, “These are my words that I spoke to you while I was still with you, that everything written about me in the law of Moses and the prophets and the psalms must be fulfilled.”
[Luke 24:45] Then he opened their minds so they could understand the scriptures,
[Luke 24:46] and said to them, “Thus it stands written that the Christ would suffer and would rise from the dead on the third day,
[Luke 24:47] and repentance for the forgiveness of sins would be proclaimed in his name to all nations, beginning from Jerusalem.
[Luke 24:48] You are witnesses of these things.
[Luke 24:49] And look, I am sending you what my Father promised. But stay in the city until you have been clothed with power from on high.”

## The ascension of Jesus
¶[Luke 24:50] Then Jesus led them out as far as Bethany, and lifting up his hands, he blessed them.
[Luke 24:51] Now during the blessing he departed and was taken up into heaven.
[Luke 24:52] So they worshiped him and returned to Jerusalem with great joy,
[Luke 24:53] and were continually in the temple courts blessing God.
