# Job 3

## Job Curses the Day of His Birth
¶[Job 3:1] After this Job opened his mouth and cursed the day he was born.

¶[Job 3:2] Job spoke up and said:
[Job 3:3] “Let the day on which I was born perish, and the night that said, ‘A man has been conceived!’
[Job 3:4] That day – let it be darkness; let not God on high regard it, nor let light shine on it!
[Job 3:5] Let darkness and the deepest shadow claim it; let a cloud settle on it; let whatever blackens the day terrify it!
[Job 3:6] That night – let darkness seize it; let it not be included among the days of the year; let it not enter among the number of the months!
[Job 3:7] Indeed, let that night be barren; let no shout of joy penetrate it!
[Job 3:8] Let those who curse the day curse it – those who are prepared to rouse Leviathan.
[Job 3:9] Let its morning stars be darkened; let it wait for daylight but find none, nor let it see the first rays of dawn,
[Job 3:10] because it did not shut the doors of my mother’s womb on me, nor did it hide trouble from my eyes!

## Job Questions Why He Was Born
¶[Job 3:11] “Why did I not die at birth, and why did I not expire as I came out of the womb?
[Job 3:12] Why did the knees welcome me, and why were there two breasts that I might nurse at them?
[Job 3:13] For now I would be lying down and would be quiet, I would be asleep and then at peace
[Job 3:14] with kings and counselors of the earth who built for themselves places now desolate,
[Job 3:15] or with princes who possessed gold, who filled their palaces with silver.
[Job 3:16] Or why was I not buried like a stillborn infant, like infants who have never seen the light?
[Job 3:17] There the wicked cease from turmoil, and there the weary are at rest.
[Job 3:18] There the prisoners relax together; they do not hear the voice of the oppressor.
[Job 3:19] Small and great are there, and the slave is free from his master.
[Job 3:20] “Why does God give light to one who is in misery, and life to those whose soul is bitter,
[Job 3:21] to those who wait for death that does not come, and search for it more than for hidden treasures,
[Job 3:22] who rejoice even to jubilation, and are exultant when they find the grave?
[Job 3:23] Why is light given to a man whose way is hidden, and whom God has hedged in?
[Job 3:24] For my sighing comes in place of my food, and my groanings flow forth like water.
[Job 3:25] For the very thing I dreaded has happened to me, and what I feared has come upon me.
[Job 3:26] I have no ease, I have no quietness; I cannot rest; turmoil has come upon me.”
