# Job 5

## Eliphaz Explains Suffering
¶[Job 5:1] “Call now! Is there anyone who will answer you? To which of the holy ones will you turn?
[Job 5:2] For wrath kills the foolish person, and anger slays the silly one.
[Job 5:3] I myself have seen the fool taking root, but suddenly I cursed his place of residence.
[Job 5:4] His children are far from safety, and they are crushed at the place where judgment is rendered, nor is there anyone to deliver them.
[Job 5:5] The hungry eat up his harvest, and take it even from behind the thorns, and the thirsty pant for their wealth.
[Job 5:6] For evil does not come up from the dust, nor does trouble spring up from the ground,
[Job 5:7] but people are born to trouble, as surely as the sparks fly upward.
[Job 5:8] “But as for me, I would seek God, and to God I would set forth my case.
[Job 5:9] He does great and unsearchable things, marvelous things without number;
[Job 5:10] he gives rain on the earth, and sends water on the fields;
[Job 5:11] he sets the lowly on high, that those who mourn are raised to safety.
[Job 5:12] He frustrates the plans of the crafty so that their hands cannot accomplish what they had planned!
[Job 5:13] He catches the wise in their own craftiness, and the counsel of the cunning is brought to a quick end.
[Job 5:14] They meet with darkness in the daytime, and grope about in the noontime as if it were night.
[Job 5:15] So he saves from the sword that comes from their mouth, even the poor from the hand of the powerful.
[Job 5:16] Thus the poor have hope, and iniquity shuts its mouth.
[Job 5:17] “Therefore, blessed is the man whom God corrects, so do not despise the discipline of the Almighty.
[Job 5:18] For he wounds, but he also bandages; he strikes, but his hands also heal.
[Job 5:19] He will deliver you from six calamities; yes, in seven no evil will touch you.
[Job 5:20] In time of famine he will redeem you from death, and in time of war from the power of the sword.
[Job 5:21] You will be protected from malicious gossip, and will not be afraid of the destruction when it comes.
[Job 5:22] You will laugh at destruction and famine and need not be afraid of the beasts of the earth.
[Job 5:23] For you will have a pact with the stones of the field, and the wild animals will be at peace with you.
[Job 5:24] And you will know that your home will be secure, and when you inspect your domains, you will not be missing anything.
[Job 5:25] You will also know that your children will be numerous, and your descendants like the grass of the earth.
[Job 5:26] You will come to your grave in a full age, As stacks of grain are harvested in their season.
[Job 5:27] Look, we have investigated this, so it is true. Hear it, and apply it for your own good.”
