# Job 6

## Job Defends His Integrity
¶[Job 6:1] Then Job responded:

¶[Job 6:2] “Oh, if only my grief could be weighed, and my misfortune laid on the scales too!
[Job 6:3] But because it is heavier than the sand of the sea, that is why my words have been wild.
[Job 6:4] For the arrows of the Almighty are within me; my spirit drinks their poison; God’s sudden terrors are arrayed against me.
[Job 6:5] “Does the wild donkey bray when it is near grass? Or does the ox bellow over its fodder?
[Job 6:6] Can food that is tasteless be eaten without salt? Or is there any taste in the white of an egg?
[Job 6:7] I have refused to touch such things; they are like loathsome food to me.
[Job 6:8] “Oh that my request would be realized, and that God would grant me what I long for!
[Job 6:9] And that God would be willing to crush me, that he would let loose his hand and kill me.
[Job 6:10] Then I would yet have my comfort, then I would rejoice, in spite of pitiless pain, for I have not concealed the words of the Holy One.
[Job 6:11] What is my strength, that I should wait? and what is my end, that I should prolong my life?
[Job 6:12] Is my strength like that of stones? or is my flesh made of bronze?
[Job 6:13] Is not my power to help myself nothing, and has not every resource been driven from me?
[Job 6:14] “To the one in despair, kindness should come from his friend even if he forsakes the fear of the Almighty.
[Job 6:15] My brothers have been as treacherous as a seasonal stream, and as the riverbeds of the intermittent streams that flow away.
[Job 6:16] They are dark because of ice; snow is piled up over them.
[Job 6:17] When they are scorched, they dry up, when it is hot, they vanish from their place.
[Job 6:18] Caravans turn aside from their routes; they go into the wasteland and perish.
[Job 6:19] The caravans of Tema looked intently for these streams; the traveling merchants of Sheba hoped for them.
[Job 6:20] They were distressed, because each one had been so confident; they arrived there, but were disappointed.
[Job 6:21] For now you have become like these streams that are no help; you see a terror, and are afraid.
[Job 6:22] “Have I ever said, ‘Give me something, and from your fortune make gifts in my favor’?
[Job 6:23] Or ‘Deliver me from the enemy’s power, and from the hand of tyrants ransom me’?
[Job 6:24] “Teach me and I, for my part, will be silent; explain to me how I have been mistaken.
[Job 6:25] How painful are honest words! But what does your reproof prove?
[Job 6:26] Do you intend to criticize mere words, and treat the words of a despairing man as wind?
[Job 6:27] Yes, you would gamble for the fatherless, and auction off your friend.
[Job 6:28] “Now then, be good enough to look at me; and I will not lie to your face!
[Job 6:29] Relent, let there be no falsehood; reconsider, for my righteousness is intact!
[Job 6:30] Is there any falsehood on my lips? Can my mouth not discern evil things?
