# Job 7

## Job's Complaint to God
¶[Job 7:1] “Does not humanity have hard service on earth? Are not their days also like the days of a hired man?
[Job 7:2] Like a servant longing for the evening shadow, and like a hired man looking for his wages,
[Job 7:3] thus I have been made to inherit months of futility, and nights of sorrow have been appointed to me.
[Job 7:4] If I lie down, I say, ‘When will I arise?’, and the night stretches on and I toss and turn restlessly until the day dawns.
[Job 7:5] My body is clothed with worms and dirty scabs; my skin is broken and festering.
[Job 7:6] My days are swifter than a weaver’s shuttle and they come to an end without hope.
[Job 7:7] Remember that my life is but a breath, that my eyes will never again see happiness.
[Job 7:8] The eye of him who sees me now will see me no more; your eyes will look for me, but I will be gone.
[Job 7:9] As a cloud is dispersed and then disappears, so the one who goes down to the grave does not come up again.
[Job 7:10] He returns no more to his house, nor does his place of residence know him any more.
[Job 7:11] “Therefore, I will not refrain my mouth; I will speak in the anguish of my spirit; I will complain in the bitterness of my soul.
[Job 7:12] Am I the sea, or the creature of the deep, that you must put me under guard?
[Job 7:13] If I say, “My bed will comfort me, my couch will ease my complaint,”
[Job 7:14] then you scare me with dreams and terrify me with visions,
[Job 7:15] so that I would prefer strangling, and death more than life.
[Job 7:16] I loathe it; I do not want to live forever; leave me alone, for my days are a vapor!
[Job 7:17] “What is mankind that you make so much of them, and that you pay attention to them?
[Job 7:18] And that you visit them every morning, and try them every moment?
[Job 7:19] Will you never look away from me, will you not let me alone long enough to swallow my spittle?
[Job 7:20] If I have sinned – what have I done to you, O watcher of men? Why have you set me as your target? Have I become a burden to you?
[Job 7:21] And why do you not pardon my transgression, and take away my iniquity? For now I will lie down in the dust, and you will seek me diligently, but I will be gone.”
