# Job 8

## Bildad Encourages Job
¶[Job 8:1] Then Bildad the Shuhite spoke up and said:

¶[Job 8:2] “How long will you speak these things, seeing that the words of your mouth are like a great wind?
[Job 8:3] Does God pervert justice? Or does the Almighty pervert what is right?
[Job 8:4] If your children sinned against him, he gave them over to the penalty of their sin.
[Job 8:5] But if you will look to God, and make your supplication to the Almighty,
[Job 8:6] if you become pure and upright, even now he will rouse himself for you, and will restore your righteous home.
[Job 8:7] Your beginning will seem so small, since your future will flourish.
[Job 8:8] “For inquire now of the former generation, and pay attention to the findings of their ancestors;
[Job 8:9] For we were born yesterday and do not have knowledge, since our days on earth are but a shadow.
[Job 8:10] Will they not instruct you and speak to you, and bring forth words from their understanding?

## Bildad Asserts God's Justice
¶[Job 8:11] Can the papyrus plant grow tall where there is no marsh? Can reeds flourish without water?
[Job 8:12] While they are still beginning to flower and not ripe for cutting, they can wither away faster than any grass!
[Job 8:13] Such is the destiny of all who forget God; the hope of the godless perishes,
[Job 8:14] whose trust is in something futile, whose security is a spider’s web.
[Job 8:15] He leans against his house but it does not hold up, he takes hold of it but it does not stand.
[Job 8:16] He is a well-watered plant in the sun, its shoots spread over its garden.
[Job 8:17] It wraps its roots around a heap of stones and it looks for a place among stones.
[Job 8:18] If he is uprooted from his place, then that place will disown him, saying, ‘I have never seen you!’
[Job 8:19] Indeed, this is the joy of his way, and out of the earth others spring up.
[Job 8:20] “Surely, God does not reject a blameless man, nor does he grasp the hand of the evildoers.
[Job 8:21] He will yet fill your mouth with laughter, and your lips with gladness.
[Job 8:22] Those who hate you will be clothed with shame, and the tent of the wicked will be no more.”
