# Job 9

## Job Expresses Inability to Argue with God
¶[Job 9:1] Then Job answered:

¶[Job 9:2] “Truly, I know that this is so. But how can a human be just before God?
[Job 9:3] If someone wishes to contend with him, he cannot answer him one time in a thousand.
[Job 9:4] He is wise in heart and mighty in strength – who has resisted him and remained safe?
[Job 9:5] He who removes mountains suddenly, who overturns them in his anger;
[Job 9:6] he who shakes the earth out of its place so that its pillars tremble;
[Job 9:7] he who commands the sun and it does not shine and seals up the stars;
[Job 9:8] he alone spreads out the heavens, and treads on the waves of the sea;
[Job 9:9] he makes the Bear, Orion, and the Pleiades, and the constellations of the southern sky;
[Job 9:10] he does great and unsearchable things, and wonderful things without number.
[Job 9:11] If he passes by me, I cannot see him, if he goes by, I cannot perceive him.
[Job 9:12] If he snatches away, who can turn him back? Who dares to say to him, ‘What are you doing?’
[Job 9:13] God does not restrain his anger; under him the helpers of Rahab lie crushed.
[Job 9:14] “How much less, then, can I answer him and choose my words to argue with him!
[Job 9:15] Although I am innocent, I could not answer him; I could only plead with my judge for mercy.
[Job 9:16] If I summoned him, and he answered me, I would not believe that he would be listening to my voice –
[Job 9:17] he who crushes me with a tempest, and multiplies my wounds for no reason.
[Job 9:18] He does not allow me to recover my breath, for he fills me with bitterness.
[Job 9:19] If it is a matter of strength, most certainly he is the strong one! And if it is a matter of justice, he will say, ‘Who will summon me?’
[Job 9:20] Although I am innocent, my mouth would condemn me; although I am blameless, it would declare me perverse.
[Job 9:21] I am blameless. I do not know myself. I despise my life.
[Job 9:22] “It is all one! That is why I say, ‘He destroys the blameless and the guilty.’
[Job 9:23] If a scourge brings sudden death, he mocks at the despair of the innocent.
[Job 9:24] If a land has been given into the hand of a wicked man, he covers the faces of its judges; if it is not he, then who is it?
[Job 9:25] “My days are swifter than a runner, they speed by without seeing happiness.
[Job 9:26] They glide by like reed boats, like an eagle that swoops down on its prey.
[Job 9:27] If I say, ‘I will forget my complaint, I will change my expression and be cheerful,’
[Job 9:28] I dread all my sufferings, for I know that you do not hold me blameless.
[Job 9:29] If I am guilty, why then weary myself in vain?
[Job 9:30] If I wash myself with snow water, and make my hands clean with lye,
[Job 9:31] then you plunge me into a slimy pit and my own clothes abhor me.
[Job 9:32] For he is not a human being like I am, that I might answer him, that we might come together in judgment.
[Job 9:33] Nor is there an arbiter between us, who might lay his hand on us both,
[Job 9:34] who would take his rod away from me so that his terror would not make me afraid.
[Job 9:35] Then would I speak and not fear him, but it is not so with me.
