# Job 10

## Job Pours Out His Soul to God
¶[Job 10:1] “I am weary of my life; I will complain without restraint; I will speak in the bitterness of my soul.
[Job 10:2] I will say to God, ‘Do not condemn me; tell me why you are contending with me.’
[Job 10:3] Is it good for you to oppress, to despise the work of your hands, while you smile on the schemes of the wicked?
[Job 10:4] “Do you have eyes of flesh, or do you see as a human being sees?
[Job 10:5] Are your days like the days of a mortal, or your years like the years of a mortal,
[Job 10:6] that you must search out my iniquity, and inquire about my sin,
[Job 10:7] although you know that I am not guilty, and that there is no one who can deliver out of your hand?
[Job 10:8] “Your hands have shaped me and made me, but now you destroy me completely.
[Job 10:9] Remember that you have made me as with the clay; will you return me to dust?
[Job 10:10] Did you not pour me out like milk, and curdle me like cheese?
[Job 10:11] You clothed me with skin and flesh and knit me together with bones and sinews.
[Job 10:12] You gave me life and favor, and your intervention watched over my spirit.
[Job 10:13] “But these things you have concealed in your heart; I know that this is with you:
[Job 10:14] If I sinned, then you would watch me and you would not acquit me of my iniquity.
[Job 10:15] If I am guilty, woe to me, and if I am innocent, I cannot lift my head; I am full of shame, and satiated with my affliction.
[Job 10:16] If I lift myself up, you hunt me as a fierce lion, and again you display your power against me.
[Job 10:17] You bring new witnesses against me, and increase your anger against me; relief troops come against me.
[Job 10:18] “Why then did you bring me out from the womb? I should have died and no eye would have seen me!
[Job 10:19] I should have been as though I had never existed; I should have been carried right from the womb to the grave!
[Job 10:20] Are not my days few? Cease, then, and leave me alone, that I may find a little comfort,
[Job 10:21] before I depart, never to return, to the land of darkness and the deepest shadow,
[Job 10:22] to the land of utter darkness, like the deepest darkness, and the deepest shadow and disorder, where even the light is like darkness.”
