# Job 11

## Zophar Accuses Job
¶[Job 11:1] Then Zophar the Naamathite spoke up and said:

¶[Job 11:2] “Should not this abundance of words be answered, or should this talkative man be vindicated?
[Job 11:3] Should people remain silent at your idle talk, and should no one rebuke you when you mock?
[Job 11:4] For you have said, ‘My teaching is flawless, and I am pure in your sight.’
[Job 11:5] But if only God would speak, if only he would open his lips against you,
[Job 11:6] and reveal to you the secrets of wisdom – for true wisdom has two sides – so that you would know that God has forgiven some of your sins.

## Zophar Declares God's Wisdom
¶[Job 11:7] “Can you discover the essence of God? Can you find out the perfection of the Almighty?
[Job 11:8] It is higher than the heavens – what can you do? It is deeper than Sheol – what can you know?
[Job 11:9] Its measure is longer than the earth, and broader than the sea.
[Job 11:10] If he comes by and confines you and convenes a court, then who can prevent him?
[Job 11:11] For he knows deceitful men; when he sees evil, will he not consider it?
[Job 11:12] But an empty man will become wise, when a wild donkey’s colt is born a human being.
[Job 11:13] “As for you, if you prove faithful, and if you stretch out your hands toward him,
[Job 11:14] if iniquity is in your hand – put it far away, and do not let evil reside in your tents.
[Job 11:15] For then you will lift up your face without blemish; you will be securely established and will not fear.
[Job 11:16] For you will forget your trouble; you will remember it like water that has flowed away.
[Job 11:17] And life will be brighter than the noonday; though there be darkness, it will be like the morning.
[Job 11:18] And you will be secure, because there is hope; you will be protected and will take your rest in safety.
[Job 11:19] You will lie down with no one to make you afraid, and many will seek your favor.
[Job 11:20] But the eyes of the wicked fail, and escape eludes them; their one hope is to breathe their last.”
