# Job 12

## Job Mocks His Friends
¶[Job 12:1] Then Job answered:

¶[Job 12:2] “Without a doubt you are the people, and wisdom will die with you.
[Job 12:3] I also have understanding as well as you; I am not inferior to you. Who does not know such things as these?
[Job 12:4] I am a laughingstock to my friends, I, who called on God and whom he answered – a righteous and blameless man is a laughingstock!
[Job 12:5] For calamity, there is derision (according to the ideas of the fortunate) – a fate for those whose feet slip!
[Job 12:6] But the tents of robbers are peaceful, and those who provoke God are confident – who carry their god in their hands.
[Job 12:7] “But now, ask the animals and they will teach you, or the birds of the sky and they will tell you.
[Job 12:8] Or speak to the earth and it will teach you, or let the fish of the sea declare to you.
[Job 12:9] Which of all these does not know that the hand of the Lord has done this,
[Job 12:10] in whose hand is the life of every creature and the breath of all the human race.
[Job 12:11] Does not the ear test words, as the tongue tastes food?
[Job 12:12] Is not wisdom found among the aged? Does not long life bring understanding?
[Job 12:13] “With God are wisdom and power; counsel and understanding are his.
[Job 12:14] If he tears down, it cannot be rebuilt; if he imprisons a person, there is no escape.
[Job 12:15] If he holds back the waters, then they dry up; if he releases them, they destroy the land.
[Job 12:16] With him are strength and prudence; both the one who goes astray and the one who misleads are his.
[Job 12:17] He leads counselors away stripped and makes judges into fools.
[Job 12:18] He loosens the bonds of kings and binds a loincloth around their waist.
[Job 12:19] He leads priests away stripped and overthrows the potentates.
[Job 12:20] He deprives the trusted advisers of speech and takes away the discernment of elders.
[Job 12:21] He pours contempt on noblemen and disarms the powerful.
[Job 12:22] He reveals the deep things of darkness, and brings deep shadows into the light.
[Job 12:23] He makes nations great, and destroys them; he extends the boundaries of nations and disperses them.
[Job 12:24] He deprives the leaders of the earth of their understanding; he makes them wander in a trackless desert waste.
[Job 12:25] They grope about in darkness without light; he makes them stagger like drunkards.
