# Job 13

## Job Appeals to God's Wisdom
¶[Job 13:1] “Indeed, my eyes have seen all this, my ears have heard and understood it.
[Job 13:2] What you know, I know also; I am not inferior to you!
[Job 13:3] But I wish to speak to the Almighty, and I desire to argue my case with God.
[Job 13:4] But you, however, are inventors of lies; all of you are worthless physicians!
[Job 13:5] If only you would keep completely silent! For you, that would be wisdom.
[Job 13:6] “Listen now to my argument, and be attentive to my lips’ contentions.
[Job 13:7] Will you speak wickedly on God’s behalf? Will you speak deceitfully for him?
[Job 13:8] Will you show him partiality? Will you argue the case for God?
[Job 13:9] Would it turn out well if he would examine you? Or as one deceives a man would you deceive him?
[Job 13:10] He would certainly rebuke you if you secretly showed partiality!
[Job 13:11] Would not his splendor terrify you and the fear he inspires fall on you?
[Job 13:12] Your maxims are proverbs of ashes; your defenses are defenses of clay.
[Job 13:13] “Refrain from talking with me so that I may speak; then let come to me what may.
[Job 13:14] Why do I put myself in peril, and take my life in my hands?
[Job 13:15] Even if he slays me, I will hope in him; I will surely defend my ways to his face!
[Job 13:16] Moreover, this will become my deliverance, for no godless person would come before him.
[Job 13:17] Listen carefully to my words; let your ears be attentive to my explanation.
[Job 13:18] See now, I have prepared my case; I know that I am right.
[Job 13:19] Who will contend with me? If anyone can, I will be silent and die.
[Job 13:20] Only in two things spare me, O God, and then I will not hide from your face:
[Job 13:21] Remove your hand far from me and stop making me afraid with your terror.
[Job 13:22] Then call, and I will answer, or I will speak, and you respond to me.
[Job 13:23] How many are my iniquities and sins? Show me my transgression and my sin.
[Job 13:24] Why do you hide your face and regard me as your enemy?
[Job 13:25] Do you wish to torment a windblown leaf and chase after dry chaff?
[Job 13:26] For you write down bitter things against me and cause me to inherit the sins of my youth.
[Job 13:27] And you put my feet in the stocks and you watch all my movements; you put marks on the soles of my feet.
[Job 13:28] So I waste away like something rotten, like a garment eaten by moths.
