# Job 14

## Job's Lament of Life's Transience
¶[Job 14:1] “Man, born of woman, lives but a few days, and they are full of trouble.
[Job 14:2] He grows up like a flower and then withers away; he flees like a shadow, and does not remain.
[Job 14:3] Do you fix your eye on such a one? And do you bring me before you for judgment?
[Job 14:4] Who can make a clean thing come from an unclean? No one!
[Job 14:5] Since man’s days are determined, the number of his months is under your control; you have set his limit and he cannot pass it.
[Job 14:6] Look away from him and let him desist, until he fulfills his time like a hired man.
[Job 14:7] “But there is hope for a tree: If it is cut down, it will sprout again, and its new shoots will not fail.
[Job 14:8] Although its roots may grow old in the ground and its stump begins to die in the soil,
[Job 14:9] at the scent of water it will flourish and put forth shoots like a new plant.
[Job 14:10] But man dies and is powerless; he expires – and where is he?
[Job 14:11] As water disappears from the sea, or a river drains away and dries up,
[Job 14:12] so man lies down and does not rise; until the heavens are no more, they will not awake nor arise from their sleep.
[Job 14:13] “O that you would hide me in Sheol, and conceal me till your anger has passed! O that you would set me a time and then remember me!
[Job 14:14] If a man dies, will he live again? All the days of my hard service I will wait until my release comes.
[Job 14:15] You will call and I – I will answer you; you will long for the creature you have made.
[Job 14:16] “Surely now you count my steps; then you would not mark my sin.
[Job 14:17] My offenses would be sealed up in a bag; you would cover over my sin.
[Job 14:18] But as a mountain falls away and crumbles, and as a rock will be removed from its place,
[Job 14:19] as water wears away stones, and torrents wash away the soil, so you destroy man’s hope.
[Job 14:20] You overpower him once for all, and he departs; you change his appearance and send him away.
[Job 14:21] If his sons are honored, he does not know it; if they are brought low, he does not see it.
[Job 14:22] His flesh only has pain for him, and he mourns for himself.”
