# Job 15

## Eliphaz Accuses Job of Arrogance
¶[Job 15:1] Then Eliphaz the Temanite answered:

¶[Job 15:2] “Does a wise man answer with blustery knowledge, or fill his belly with the east wind?
[Job 15:3] Does he argue with useless talk, with words that have no value in them?
[Job 15:4] But you even break off piety, and hinder meditation before God.
[Job 15:5] Your sin inspires your mouth; you choose the language of the crafty.
[Job 15:6] Your own mouth condemns you, not I; your own lips testify against you.
[Job 15:7] “Were you the first man ever born? Were you brought forth before the hills?
[Job 15:8] Do you listen in on God’s secret council? Do you limit wisdom to yourself?
[Job 15:9] What do you know that we don’t know? What do you understand that we don’t understand?
[Job 15:10] The gray-haired and the aged are on our side, men far older than your father.
[Job 15:11] Are God’s consolations too trivial for you; or a word spoken in gentleness to you?
[Job 15:12] Why has your heart carried you away, and why do your eyes flash,
[Job 15:13] when you turn your rage against God and allow such words to escape from your mouth?
[Job 15:14] What is man that he should be pure, or one born of woman, that he should be righteous?
[Job 15:15] If God places no trust in his holy ones, if even the heavens are not pure in his eyes,
[Job 15:16] how much less man, who is abominable and corrupt, who drinks in evil like water!

## Eliphaz Portrays the Fate of the Wicked
¶[Job 15:17] “I will explain to you; listen to me, and what I have seen, I will declare,
[Job 15:18] what wise men declare, hiding nothing, from the tradition of their ancestors,
[Job 15:19] to whom alone the land was given when no foreigner passed among them.
[Job 15:20] All his days the wicked man suffers torment, throughout the number of the years that are stored up for the tyrant.
[Job 15:21] Terrifying sounds fill his ears; in a time of peace marauders attack him.
[Job 15:22] He does not expect to escape from darkness; he is marked for the sword;
[Job 15:23] he wanders about – food for vultures; he knows that the day of darkness is at hand.
[Job 15:24] Distress and anguish terrify him; they prevail against him like a king ready to launch an attack,
[Job 15:25] for he stretches out his hand against God, and vaunts himself against the Almighty,
[Job 15:26] defiantly charging against him with a thick, strong shield!
[Job 15:27] Because he covered his face with fat, and made his hips bulge with fat,
[Job 15:28] he lived in ruined towns and in houses where no one lives, where they are ready to crumble into heaps.
[Job 15:29] He will not grow rich, and his wealth will not endure, nor will his possessions spread over the land.
[Job 15:30] He will not escape the darkness; a flame will wither his shoots and he will depart by the breath of God’s mouth.
[Job 15:31] Let him not trust in what is worthless, deceiving himself; for worthlessness will be his reward.
[Job 15:32] Before his time he will be paid in full, and his branches will not flourish.
[Job 15:33] Like a vine he will let his sour grapes fall, and like an olive tree he will shed his blossoms.
[Job 15:34] For the company of the godless is barren, and fire consumes the tents of those who accept bribes.
[Job 15:35] They conceive trouble and bring forth evil; their belly prepares deception.”
