# Job 16

## Job's Rejection of his Friends' Arguments
¶[Job 16:1] Then Job replied:

¶[Job 16:2] “I have heard many things like these before. What miserable comforters are you all!
[Job 16:3] Will there be an end to your windy words? Or what provokes you that you answer?
[Job 16:4] I also could speak like you, if you were in my place; I could pile up words against you and I could shake my head at you.
[Job 16:5] But I would strengthen you with my words; comfort from my lips would bring you relief.
[Job 16:6] “But if I speak, my pain is not relieved, and if I refrain from speaking – how much of it goes away?
[Job 16:7] Surely now he has worn me out, you have devastated my entire household.
[Job 16:8] You have seized me, and it has become a witness; my leanness has risen up against me and testifies against me.
[Job 16:9] His anger has torn me and persecuted me; he has gnashed at me with his teeth; my adversary locks his eyes on me.
[Job 16:10] People have opened their mouths against me, they have struck my cheek in scorn; they unite together against me.
[Job 16:11] God abandons me to evil men, and throws me into the hands of wicked men.
[Job 16:12] I was in peace, and he has shattered me. He has seized me by the neck and crushed me. He has made me his target;
[Job 16:13] his archers surround me. Without pity he pierces my kidneys and pours out my gall on the ground.
[Job 16:14] He breaks through against me, time and time again; he rushes against me like a warrior.
[Job 16:15] I have sewed sackcloth on my skin, and buried my horn in the dust;
[Job 16:16] my face is reddened because of weeping, and on my eyelids there is a deep darkness,
[Job 16:17] although there is no violence in my hands and my prayer is pure.
[Job 16:18] “O earth, do not cover my blood, nor let there be a secret place for my cry.
[Job 16:19] Even now my witness is in heaven; my advocate is on high.
[Job 16:20] My intercessor is my friend as my eyes pour out tears to God;
[Job 16:21] and he contends with God on behalf of man as a man pleads for his friend.
[Job 16:22] For the years that lie ahead are few, and then I will go on the way of no return.
