# Job 18

## Bildad Scorns Job
¶[Job 18:1] Then Bildad the Shuhite answered:

¶[Job 18:2] “How long until you make an end of words? You must consider, and then we can talk.
[Job 18:3] Why should we be regarded as beasts, and considered stupid in your sight?
[Job 18:4] You who tear yourself to pieces in your anger, will the earth be abandoned for your sake? Or will a rock be moved from its place?

## Bildad Describes the Wicked's Fate
¶[Job 18:5] “Yes, the lamp of the wicked is extinguished; his flame of fire does not shine.
[Job 18:6] The light in his tent grows dark; his lamp above him is extinguished.
[Job 18:7] His vigorous steps are restricted, and his own counsel throws him down.
[Job 18:8] For he has been thrown into a net by his feet and he wanders into a mesh.
[Job 18:9] A trap seizes him by the heel; a snare grips him.
[Job 18:10] A rope is hidden for him on the ground and a trap for him lies on the path.
[Job 18:11] Terrors frighten him on all sides and dog his every step.
[Job 18:12] Calamity is hungry for him, and misfortune is ready at his side.
[Job 18:13] It eats away parts of his skin; the most terrible death devours his limbs.
[Job 18:14] He is dragged from the security of his tent, and marched off to the king of terrors.
[Job 18:15] Fire resides in his tent; over his residence burning sulfur is scattered.
[Job 18:16] Below his roots dry up, and his branches wither above.
[Job 18:17] His memory perishes from the earth, he has no name in the land.
[Job 18:18] He is driven from light into darkness and is banished from the world.
[Job 18:19] He has neither children nor descendants among his people, no survivor in those places he once stayed.
[Job 18:20] People of the west are appalled at his fate; people of the east are seized with horror, saying,
[Job 18:21] ‘Surely such is the residence of an evil man; and this is the place of one who has not known God.’”
