# Job 19

## Job Describes His Suffering
¶[Job 19:1] Then Job answered:

¶[Job 19:2] “How long will you torment me and crush me with your words?
[Job 19:3] These ten times you have been reproaching me; you are not ashamed to attack me!
[Job 19:4] But even if it were true that I have erred, my error remains solely my concern!
[Job 19:5] If indeed you would exalt yourselves above me and plead my disgrace against me,
[Job 19:6] know then that God has wronged me and encircled me with his net.
[Job 19:7] “If I cry out, ‘Violence!’ I receive no answer; I cry for help, but there is no justice.
[Job 19:8] He has blocked my way so I cannot pass, and has set darkness over my paths.
[Job 19:9] He has stripped me of my honor and has taken the crown off my head.
[Job 19:10] He tears me down on every side until I perish; he uproots my hope like an uprooted tree.
[Job 19:11] Thus his anger burns against me, and he considers me among his enemies.
[Job 19:12] His troops advance together; they throw up a siege ramp against me, and they camp around my tent.
[Job 19:13] “He has put my relatives far from me; my acquaintances only turn away from me.
[Job 19:14] My kinsmen have failed me; my friends have forgotten me.
[Job 19:15] My guests and my servant girls consider me a stranger; I am a foreigner in their eyes.
[Job 19:16] I summon my servant, but he does not respond, even though I implore him with my own mouth.
[Job 19:17] My breath is repulsive to my wife; I am loathsome to my brothers.
[Job 19:18] Even youngsters have scorned me; when I get up, they scoff at me.
[Job 19:19] All my closest friends detest me; and those whom I love have turned against me.
[Job 19:20] My bones stick to my skin and my flesh; I have escaped alive with only the skin of my teeth.
[Job 19:21] Have pity on me, my friends, have pity on me, for the hand of God has struck me.
[Job 19:22] Why do you pursue me like God does? Will you never be satiated with my flesh?

## Job Expresses Confidence in His Redeemer
¶[Job 19:23] “O that my words were written down, O that they were written on a scroll,
[Job 19:24] that with an iron chisel and with lead they were engraved in a rock forever!
[Job 19:25] As for me, I know that my Redeemer lives, and that as the last he will stand upon the earth.
[Job 19:26] And after my skin has been destroyed, yet in my flesh I will see God,
[Job 19:27] whom I will see for myself, and whom my own eyes will behold, and not another. My heart grows faint within me.
[Job 19:28] If you say, ‘How we will pursue him, since the root of the trouble is found in him!’
[Job 19:29] Fear the sword yourselves, for wrath brings the punishment by the sword, so that you may know that there is judgment.”
