# Job 21

## The Wicked sometimes Prosper
¶[Job 21:1] Then Job answered:

¶[Job 21:2] “Listen carefully to my words; let this be the consolation you offer me.
[Job 21:3] Bear with me and I will speak, and after I have spoken you may mock.
[Job 21:4] Is my complaint against a man? If so, why should I not be impatient?
[Job 21:5] Look at me and be appalled; put your hands over your mouths.
[Job 21:6] For, when I think about this, I am terrified and my body feels a shudder.
[Job 21:7] “Why do the wicked go on living, grow old, even increase in power?
[Job 21:8] Their children are firmly established in their presence, their offspring before their eyes.
[Job 21:9] Their houses are safe and without fear; and no rod of punishment from God is upon them.
[Job 21:10] Their bulls breed without fail; their cows calve and do not miscarry.
[Job 21:11] They allow their children to run like a flock; their little ones dance about.
[Job 21:12] They sing to the accompaniment of tambourine and harp, and make merry to the sound of the flute.
[Job 21:13] They live out their years in prosperity and go down to the grave in peace.
[Job 21:14] So they say to God, ‘Turn away from us! We do not want to know your ways.
[Job 21:15] Who is the Almighty, that we should serve him? What would we gain if we were to pray to him?’
[Job 21:16] But their prosperity is not their own doing. The counsel of the wicked is far from me!

## The Wicked's Punishment
¶[Job 21:17] “How often is the lamp of the wicked extinguished? How often does their misfortune come upon them? How often does God apportion pain to them in his anger?
[Job 21:18] How often are they like straw before the wind, and like chaff swept away by a whirlwind?
[Job 21:19] You may say, ‘God stores up a man’s punishment for his children!’ Instead let him repay the man himself so that he may be humbled!
[Job 21:20] Let his own eyes see his destruction; let him drink of the anger of the Almighty.
[Job 21:21] For what is his interest in his home after his death, when the number of his months has been broken off?
[Job 21:22] Can anyone teach God knowledge, since he judges those that are on high?
[Job 21:23] “One man dies in his full vigor, completely secure and prosperous,
[Job 21:24] his body well nourished, and the marrow of his bones moist.
[Job 21:25] And another man dies in bitterness of soul, never having tasted anything good.
[Job 21:26] Together they lie down in the dust, and worms cover over them both.
[Job 21:27] “Yes, I know what you are thinking, the schemes by which you would wrong me.
[Job 21:28] For you say, ‘Where now is the nobleman’s house, and where are the tents in which the wicked lived?’
[Job 21:29] Have you never questioned those who travel the roads? Do you not recognize their accounts –
[Job 21:30] that the evil man is spared from the day of his misfortune, that he is delivered from the day of God’s wrath?
[Job 21:31] No one denounces his conduct to his face; no one repays him for what he has done.
[Job 21:32] And when he is carried to the tombs, and watch is kept over the funeral mound,
[Job 21:33] The clods of the torrent valley are sweet to him; behind him everybody follows in procession, and before him goes a countless throng.
[Job 21:34] So how can you console me with your futile words? Nothing is left of your answers but deception!”
