# Job 22

## Eliphaz Accuses Job of Sin
¶[Job 22:1] Then Eliphaz the Temanite answered:

¶[Job 22:2] “Is it to God that a strong man is of benefit? Is it to him that even a wise man is profitable?
[Job 22:3] Is it of any special benefit to the Almighty that you should be righteous, or is it any gain to him that you make your ways blameless?
[Job 22:4] Is it because of your piety that he rebukes you and goes to judgment with you?
[Job 22:5] Is not your wickedness great and is there no end to your iniquity?
[Job 22:6] “For you took pledges from your brothers for no reason, and you stripped the clothing from the naked.
[Job 22:7] You gave the weary no water to drink and from the hungry you withheld food.
[Job 22:8] Although you were a powerful man, owning land, an honored man living on it,
[Job 22:9] you sent widows away empty-handed, and the arms of the orphans you crushed.
[Job 22:10] That is why snares surround you, and why sudden fear terrifies you,
[Job 22:11] why it is so dark you cannot see, and why a flood of water covers you.
[Job 22:12] “Is not God on high in heaven? And see the lofty stars, how high they are!
[Job 22:13] But you have said, ‘What does God know? Does he judge through such deep darkness?
[Job 22:14] Thick clouds are a veil for him, so he does not see us, as he goes back and forth in the vault of heaven.’
[Job 22:15] Will you keep to the old path that evil men have walked –
[Job 22:16] men who were carried off before their time, when the flood was poured out on their foundations?
[Job 22:17] They were saying to God, ‘Turn away from us,’ and ‘What can the Almighty do to us?’
[Job 22:18] But it was he who filled their houses with good things – yet the counsel of the wicked was far from me.
[Job 22:19] The righteous see their destruction and rejoice; the innocent mock them scornfully, saying,
[Job 22:20] ‘Surely our enemies are destroyed, and fire consumes their wealth.’

## Eliphaz Advices Repentance
¶[Job 22:21] “Reconcile yourself with God, and be at peace with him; in this way your prosperity will be good.
[Job 22:22] Accept instruction from his mouth and store up his words in your heart.
[Job 22:23] If you return to the Almighty, you will be built up; if you remove wicked behavior far from your tent,
[Job 22:24] and throw your gold in the dust – your gold of Ophir among the rocks in the ravines –
[Job 22:25] then the Almighty himself will be your gold, and the choicest silver for you.
[Job 22:26] Surely then you will delight yourself in the Almighty, and will lift up your face toward God.
[Job 22:27] You will pray to him and he will hear you, and you will fulfill your vows to him.
[Job 22:28] Whatever you decide on a matter, it will be established for you, and light will shine on your ways.
[Job 22:29] When people are brought low and you say ‘Lift them up!’ then he will save the downcast;
[Job 22:30] he will deliver even someone who is not innocent, who will escape through the cleanness of your hands.”
