# Job 23

## Job Desires to Plead His Case
¶[Job 23:1] Then Job answered:

¶[Job 23:2] “Even today my complaint is still bitter; his hand is heavy despite my groaning.
[Job 23:3] O that I knew where I might find him, that I could come to his place of residence!
[Job 23:4] I would lay out my case before him and fill my mouth with arguments.
[Job 23:5] I would know with what words he would answer me, and understand what he would say to me.
[Job 23:6] Would he contend with me with great power? No, he would only pay attention to me.
[Job 23:7] There an upright person could present his case before him, and I would be delivered forever from my judge.
[Job 23:8] “If I go to the east, he is not there, and to the west, yet I do not perceive him.
[Job 23:9] In the north when he is at work, I do not see him; when he turns to the south, I see no trace of him.
[Job 23:10] But he knows the pathway that I take; if he tested me, I would come forth like gold.
[Job 23:11] My feet have followed his steps closely; I have kept to his way and have not turned aside.
[Job 23:12] I have not departed from the commands of his lips; I have treasured the words of his mouth more than my allotted portion.
[Job 23:13] But he is unchangeable, and who can change him? Whatever he has desired, he does.
[Job 23:14] For he fulfills his decree against me, and many such things are his plans.
[Job 23:15] That is why I am terrified in his presence; when I consider, I am afraid because of him.
[Job 23:16] Indeed, God has made my heart faint; the Almighty has terrified me.
[Job 23:17] Yet I have not been silent because of the darkness, because of the thick darkness that covered my face.
