# Job 24

## Job Highlights the Wicked's Prosperity
¶[Job 24:1] “Why are times not appointed by the Almighty? Why do those who know him not see his days?
[Job 24:2] Men move boundary stones; they seize the flock and pasture them.
[Job 24:3] They drive away the orphan’s donkey; they take the widow’s ox as a pledge.
[Job 24:4] They turn the needy from the pathway, and the poor of the land hide themselves together.
[Job 24:5] Like wild donkeys in the wilderness, they go out to their labor seeking diligently for food; the arid rift valley provides food for them and for their children.
[Job 24:6] They reap fodder in the field, and glean in the vineyard of the wicked.
[Job 24:7] They spend the night naked because they lack clothing; they have no covering against the cold.
[Job 24:8] They are soaked by mountain rains and huddle in the rocks because they lack shelter.
[Job 24:9] The fatherless child is snatched from the breast, the infant of the poor is taken as a pledge.
[Job 24:10] They go about naked, without clothing, and go hungry while they carry the sheaves.
[Job 24:11] They press out the olive oil between the rows of olive trees; they tread the winepresses while they are thirsty.
[Job 24:12] From the city the dying groan, and the wounded cry out for help, but God charges no one with wrongdoing.
[Job 24:13] There are those who rebel against the light; they do not know its ways and they do not stay on its paths.
[Job 24:14] Before daybreak the murderer rises up; he kills the poor and the needy; in the night he is like a thief.
[Job 24:15] And the eye of the adulterer watches for the twilight, thinking, ‘No eye can see me,’ and covers his face with a mask.
[Job 24:16] In the dark the robber breaks into houses, but by day they shut themselves in; they do not know the light.
[Job 24:17] For all of them, the morning is to them like deep darkness; they are friends with the terrors of darkness.
[Job 24:18] “You say, ‘He is foam on the face of the waters; their portion of the land is cursed so that no one goes to their vineyard.
[Job 24:19] The drought as well as the heat snatch up the melted snow; so the grave snatches up the sinner.
[Job 24:20] The womb forgets him, the worm feasts on him, no longer will he be remembered. Like a tree, wickedness will be broken down.
[Job 24:21] He preys on the barren and childless woman, and does not treat the widow well.
[Job 24:22] But God drags off the mighty by his power; when God rises up against him, he has no faith in his life.
[Job 24:23] God may let them rest in a feeling of security, but he is constantly watching all their ways.
[Job 24:24] They are exalted for a little while, and then they are gone, they are brought low like all others, and gathered in, and like a head of grain they are cut off.’
[Job 24:25] “If this is not so, who can prove me a liar and reduce my words to nothing?”
