# Job 27

## Job Maintains His Integrity
¶[Job 27:1] And Job took up his discourse again:

¶[Job 27:2] “As surely as God lives, who has denied me justice, the Almighty, who has made my life bitter –
[Job 27:3] for while my spirit is still in me, and the breath from God is in my nostrils,
[Job 27:4] my lips will not speak wickedness, and my tongue will whisper no deceit.
[Job 27:5] I will never declare that you three are in the right; until I die, I will not set aside my integrity!
[Job 27:6] I will maintain my righteousness and never let it go; my conscience will not reproach me for as long as I live.
[Job 27:7] “May my enemy be like the wicked, my adversary like the unrighteous.
[Job 27:8] For what hope does the godless have when he is cut off, when God takes away his life?
[Job 27:9] Does God listen to his cry when distress overtakes him?
[Job 27:10] Will he find delight in the Almighty? Will he call out to God at all times?
[Job 27:11] I will teach you about the power of God; What is on the Almighty’s mind I will not conceal.
[Job 27:12] If you yourselves have all seen this, Why in the world do you continue this meaningless talk?
[Job 27:13] This is the portion of the wicked man allotted by God, the inheritance that evildoers receive from the Almighty.
[Job 27:14] If his children increase – it is for the sword! His offspring never have enough to eat.
[Job 27:15] Those who survive him are buried by the plague, and their widows do not mourn for them.
[Job 27:16] If he piles up silver like dust and stores up clothing like mounds of clay,
[Job 27:17] what he stores up a righteous man will wear, and an innocent man will inherit his silver.
[Job 27:18] The house he builds is as fragile as a moth’s cocoon, like a hut that a watchman has made.
[Job 27:19] He goes to bed wealthy, but will do so no more. When he opens his eyes, it is all gone.
[Job 27:20] Terrors overwhelm him like a flood; at night a whirlwind carries him off.
[Job 27:21] The east wind carries him away, and he is gone; it sweeps him out of his place.
[Job 27:22] It hurls itself against him without pity as he flees headlong from its power.
[Job 27:23] It claps its hands at him in derision and hisses him away from his place.
