# Job 28

## The Search for Wisdom
¶[Job 28:1] “Surely there is a mine for silver, and a place where gold is refined.
[Job 28:2] Iron is taken from the ground, and rock is poured out as copper.
[Job 28:3] Man puts an end to the darkness; he searches the farthest recesses for the ore in the deepest darkness.
[Job 28:4] Far from where people live he sinks a shaft, in places travelers have long forgotten, far from other people he dangles and sways.
[Job 28:5] The earth, from which food comes, is overturned below as though by fire;
[Job 28:6] a place whose stones are sapphires and which contains dust of gold;
[Job 28:7] a hidden path no bird of prey knows – no falcon’s eye has spotted it.
[Job 28:8] Proud beasts have not set foot on it, and no lion has passed along it.
[Job 28:9] On the flinty rock man has set to work with his hand; he has overturned mountains at their bases.
[Job 28:10] He has cut out channels through the rocks; his eyes have spotted every precious thing.
[Job 28:11] He has searched the sources of the rivers and what was hidden he has brought into the light.
[Job 28:12] “But wisdom – where can it be found? Where is the place of understanding?

## Wisdom's Inaccessibility
¶[Job 28:13] Mankind does not know its place; it cannot be found in the land of the living.
[Job 28:14] The deep says, ‘It is not with me.’ And the sea says, ‘It is not with me.’
[Job 28:15] Fine gold cannot be given in exchange for it, nor can its price be weighed out in silver.
[Job 28:16] It cannot be measured out for purchase with the gold of Ophir, with precious onyx or sapphires.
[Job 28:17] Neither gold nor crystal can be compared with it, nor can a vase of gold match its worth.
[Job 28:18] Of coral and jasper no mention will be made; the price of wisdom is more than pearls.
[Job 28:19] The topaz of Cush cannot be compared with it; it cannot be purchased with pure gold.
[Job 28:20] “But wisdom – where does it come from? Where is the place of understanding?
[Job 28:21] For it has been hidden from the eyes of every living creature, and from the birds of the sky it has been concealed.
[Job 28:22] Destruction and Death say, ‘With our ears we have heard a rumor about where it can be found.’

## Wisdom Belongs to God
¶[Job 28:23] God understands the way to it, and he alone knows its place.
[Job 28:24] For he looks to the ends of the earth and observes everything under the heavens.
[Job 28:25] When he made the force of the wind and measured the waters with a gauge,
[Job 28:26] when he imposed a limit for the rain, and a path for the thunderstorm,
[Job 28:27] then he looked at wisdom and assessed its value; he established it and examined it closely.
[Job 28:28] And he said to mankind, ‘The fear of the Lord – that is wisdom, and to turn away from evil is understanding.’”
