# Job 29

## Job's Former Glory
¶[Job 29:1] Then Job continued his speech:

¶[Job 29:2] “O that I could be as I was in the months now gone, in the days when God watched over me,
[Job 29:3] when he caused his lamp to shine upon my head, and by his light I walked through darkness;
[Job 29:4] just as I was in my most productive time, when God’s intimate friendship was experienced in my tent,
[Job 29:5] when the Almighty was still with me and my children were around me;
[Job 29:6] when my steps were bathed with butter and the rock poured out for me streams of olive oil!
[Job 29:7] When I went out to the city gate and secured my seat in the public square,
[Job 29:8] the young men would see me and step aside, and the old men would get up and remain standing;
[Job 29:9] the chief men refrained from talking and covered their mouths with their hands;
[Job 29:10] the voices of the nobles fell silent, and their tongues stuck to the roof of their mouths.
[Job 29:11] “As soon as the ear heard these things, it blessed me, and when the eye saw them, it bore witness to me,
[Job 29:12] for I rescued the poor who cried out for help, and the orphan who had no one to assist him;
[Job 29:13] the blessing of the dying man descended on me, and I made the widow’s heart rejoice;
[Job 29:14] I put on righteousness and it clothed me, my just dealing was like a robe and a turban;
[Job 29:15] I was eyes for the blind and feet for the lame;
[Job 29:16] I was a father to the needy, and I investigated the case of the person I did not know;
[Job 29:17] I broke the fangs of the wicked, and made him drop his prey from his teeth.
[Job 29:18] “Then I thought, ‘I will die in my own home, my days as numerous as the grains of sand.
[Job 29:19] My roots reach the water, and the dew lies on my branches all night long.
[Job 29:20] My glory will always be fresh in me, and my bow ever new in my hand.’
[Job 29:21] “People listened to me and waited silently; they kept silent for my advice.
[Job 29:22] After I had spoken, they did not respond; my words fell on them drop by drop.
[Job 29:23] They waited for me as people wait for the rain, and they opened their mouths as for the spring rains.
[Job 29:24] If I smiled at them, they hardly believed it; and they did not cause the light of my face to darken.
[Job 29:25] I chose the way for them and sat as their chief; I lived like a king among his troops; I was like one who comforts mourners.
