# Job 30

## Job's Present Misery
¶[Job 30:1] “But now they mock me, those who are younger than I, whose fathers I disdained too much to put with my sheep dogs.
[Job 30:2] Moreover, the strength of their hands – what use was it to me? Men whose strength had perished;
[Job 30:3] gaunt with want and hunger, they would roam the parched land, by night a desolate waste.
[Job 30:4] By the brush they would gather herbs from the salt marshes, and the root of the broom tree was their food.
[Job 30:5] They were banished from the community – people shouted at them like they would shout at thieves –
[Job 30:6] so that they had to live in the dry stream beds, in the holes of the ground, and among the rocks.
[Job 30:7] They brayed like animals among the bushes and were huddled together under the nettles.
[Job 30:8] Sons of senseless and nameless people, they were driven out of the land with whips.
[Job 30:9] “And now I have become their taunt song; I have become a byword among them.
[Job 30:10] They detest me and maintain their distance; they do not hesitate to spit in my face.
[Job 30:11] Because God has untied my tent cord and afflicted me, people throw off all restraint in my presence.
[Job 30:12] On my right the young rabble rise up; they drive me from place to place, and build up siege ramps against me.
[Job 30:13] They destroy my path; they succeed in destroying me without anyone assisting them.
[Job 30:14] They come in as through a wide breach; amid the crash they come rolling in.
[Job 30:15] Terrors are turned loose on me; they drive away my honor like the wind, and like a cloud my deliverance has passed away.
[Job 30:16] “And now my soul pours itself out within me; days of suffering take hold of me.
[Job 30:17] Night pierces my bones; my gnawing pains never cease.
[Job 30:18] With great power God grasps my clothing; he binds me like the collar of my tunic.
[Job 30:19] He has flung me into the mud, and I have come to resemble dust and ashes.
[Job 30:20] I cry out to you, but you do not answer me; I stand up, and you only look at me.
[Job 30:21] You have become cruel to me; with the strength of your hand you attack me.
[Job 30:22] You pick me up on the wind and make me ride on it; you toss me about in the storm.
[Job 30:23] I know that you are bringing me to death, to the meeting place for all the living.
[Job 30:24] “Surely one does not stretch out his hand against a broken man when he cries for help in his distress.
[Job 30:25] Have I not wept for the unfortunate? Was not my soul grieved for the poor?
[Job 30:26] But when I hoped for good, trouble came; when I expected light, then darkness came.
[Job 30:27] My heart is in turmoil unceasingly; the days of my affliction confront me.
[Job 30:28] I go about blackened, but not by the sun; in the assembly I stand up and cry for help.
[Job 30:29] I have become a brother to jackals and a companion of ostriches.
[Job 30:30] My skin has turned dark on me; my body is hot with fever.
[Job 30:31] My harp is used for mourning and my flute for the sound of weeping.
