# Job 31

## Job's Final Protest of Innocence
¶[Job 31:1] “I made a covenant with my eyes; how then could I entertain thoughts against a virgin?
[Job 31:2] What then would be one’s lot from God above, one’s heritage from the Almighty on high?
[Job 31:3] Is it not misfortune for the unjust, and disaster for those who work iniquity?
[Job 31:4] Does he not see my ways and count all my steps?
[Job 31:5] If I have walked in falsehood, and if my foot has hastened to deceit –
[Job 31:6] let him weigh me with honest scales; then God will discover my integrity.
[Job 31:7] If my footsteps have strayed from the way, if my heart has gone after my eyes, or if anything has defiled my hands,
[Job 31:8] then let me sow and let another eat, and let my crops be uprooted.
[Job 31:9] If my heart has been enticed by a woman, and I have lain in wait at my neighbor’s door,
[Job 31:10] then let my wife turn the millstone for another man, and may other men commit adultery with her.
[Job 31:11] For I would have committed a shameful act, an iniquity to be judged.
[Job 31:12] For it is a fire that devours even to Destruction, and it would uproot all my harvest.
[Job 31:13] “If I have disregarded the right of my male servants or my female servants when they disputed with me,
[Job 31:14] then what will I do when God confronts me in judgment; when he intervenes, how will I respond to him?
[Job 31:15] Did not the one who made me in the womb make them? Did not the same one form us in the womb?
[Job 31:16] If I have refused to give the poor what they desired, or caused the eyes of the widow to fail,
[Job 31:17] If I ate my morsel of bread myself, and did not share any of it with orphans –
[Job 31:18] but from my youth I raised the orphan like a father, and from my mother’s womb I guided the widow!
[Job 31:19] If I have seen anyone about to perish for lack of clothing, or a poor man without a coat,
[Job 31:20] whose heart did not bless me as he warmed himself with the fleece of my sheep,
[Job 31:21] if I have raised my hand to vote against the orphan, when I saw my support in the court,
[Job 31:22] then let my arm fall from the shoulder, let my arm be broken off at the socket.
[Job 31:23] For the calamity from God was a terror to me, and by reason of his majesty I was powerless.
[Job 31:24] “If I have put my confidence in gold or said to pure gold, ‘You are my security!’
[Job 31:25] if I have rejoiced because of the extent of my wealth, or because of the great wealth my hand had gained,
[Job 31:26] if I looked at the sun when it was shining, and the moon advancing as a precious thing,
[Job 31:27] so that my heart was secretly enticed, and my hand threw them a kiss from my mouth,
[Job 31:28] then this also would be iniquity to be judged, for I would have been false to God above.
[Job 31:29] If I have rejoiced over the misfortune of my enemy or exulted because calamity found him –
[Job 31:30] I have not even permitted my mouth to sin by asking for his life through a curse –
[Job 31:31] if the members of my household have never said, ‘If only there were someone who has not been satisfied from Job’s meat!’ –
[Job 31:32] But no stranger had to spend the night outside, for I opened my doors to the traveler –
[Job 31:33] if I have covered my transgressions as men do, by hiding iniquity in my heart,
[Job 31:34] because I was terrified of the great multitude, and the contempt of families terrified me, so that I remained silent and would not go outdoors –
[Job 31:35] “If only I had someone to hear me! Here is my signature – let the Almighty answer me! If only I had an indictment that my accuser had written.
[Job 31:36] Surely I would wear it proudly on my shoulder, I would bind it on me like a crown;
[Job 31:37] I would give him an accounting of my steps; like a prince I would approach him.
[Job 31:38] “If my land cried out against me and all its furrows wept together,
[Job 31:39] if I have eaten its produce without paying, or caused the death of its owners,
[Job 31:40] then let thorns sprout up in place of wheat, and in place of barley, weeds!” The words of Job are ended.
