# Job 32

## Elihu's Introduction
¶[Job 32:1] So these three men refused to answer Job further, because he was righteous in his own eyes.
[Job 32:2] Then Elihu son of Barakel the Buzite, of the family of Ram, became very angry. He was angry with Job for justifying himself rather than God.
[Job 32:3] With Job’s three friends he was also angry, because they could not find an answer, and so declared Job guilty.
[Job 32:4] Now Elihu had waited before speaking to Job, because the others were older than he was.
[Job 32:5] But when Elihu saw that the three men had no further reply, he became very angry.

¶[Job 32:6] So Elihu son of Barakel the Buzite spoke up: “I am young, but you are elderly; that is why I was fearful, and afraid to explain to you what I know.
[Job 32:7] I said to myself, ‘Age should speak, and length of years should make wisdom known.’
[Job 32:8] But it is a spirit in people, the breath of the Almighty, that makes them understand.
[Job 32:9] It is not the aged who are wise, nor old men who understand what is right.
[Job 32:10] Therefore I say, ‘Listen to me. I, even I, will explain what I know.’
[Job 32:11] Look, I waited for you to speak; I listened closely to your wise thoughts, while you were searching for words.
[Job 32:12] Now I was paying you close attention, yet there was no one proving Job wrong, not one of you was answering his statements!
[Job 32:13] So do not say, ‘We have found wisdom! God will refute him, not man!’
[Job 32:14] Job has not directed his words to me, and so I will not reply to him with your arguments.
[Job 32:15] “They are dismayed and cannot answer any more; they have nothing left to say.
[Job 32:16] And I have waited. But because they do not speak, because they stand there and answer no more,
[Job 32:17] I too will answer my part, I too will explain what I know.
[Job 32:18] For I am full of words, and the spirit within me constrains me.
[Job 32:19] Inside I am like wine which has no outlet, like new wineskins ready to burst!
[Job 32:20] I will speak, so that I may find relief; I will open my lips, so that I may answer.
[Job 32:21] I will not show partiality to anyone, nor will I confer a title on any man.
[Job 32:22] for I do not know how to give honorary titles, if I did, my Creator would quickly do away with me.
