# Job 33

## Elihu Corrects Job
¶[Job 33:1] “But now, O Job, listen to my words, and hear everything I have to say!
[Job 33:2] See now, I have opened my mouth; my tongue in my mouth has spoken.
[Job 33:3] My words come from the uprightness of my heart, and my lips will utter knowledge sincerely.
[Job 33:4] The Spirit of God has made me, and the breath of the Almighty gives me life.
[Job 33:5] Reply to me, if you can; set your arguments in order before me and take your stand!
[Job 33:6] Look, I am just like you in relation to God; I too have been molded from clay.
[Job 33:7] Therefore no fear of me should terrify you, nor should my pressure be heavy on you.
[Job 33:8] “Indeed, you have said in my hearing (I heard the sound of the words!):
[Job 33:9] ‘I am pure, without transgression; I am clean and have no iniquity.
[Job 33:10] Yet God finds occasions with me; he regards me as his enemy!
[Job 33:11] He puts my feet in shackles; he watches closely all my paths.’
[Job 33:12] Now in this, you are not right – I answer you, for God is greater than a human being.
[Job 33:13] Why do you contend against him, that he does not answer all a person’s words?
[Job 33:14] “For God speaks, the first time in one way, the second time in another, though a person does not perceive it.
[Job 33:15] In a dream, a night vision, when deep sleep falls on people as they sleep in their beds.
[Job 33:16] Then he gives a revelation to people, and terrifies them with warnings,
[Job 33:17] to turn a person from his sin, and to cover a person’s pride.
[Job 33:18] He spares a person’s life from corruption, his very life from crossing over the river.
[Job 33:19] Or a person is chastened by pain on his bed, and with the continual strife of his bones,
[Job 33:20] so that his life loathes food, and his soul rejects appetizing fare.
[Job 33:21] His flesh wastes away from sight, and his bones, which were not seen, are easily visible.
[Job 33:22] He draws near to the place of corruption, and his life to the messengers of death.
[Job 33:23] If there is an angel beside him, one mediator out of a thousand, to tell a person what constitutes his uprightness;
[Job 33:24] and if God is gracious to him and says, ‘Spare him from going down to the place of corruption, I have found a ransom for him,’
[Job 33:25] then his flesh is restored like a youth’s; he returns to the days of his youthful vigor.
[Job 33:26] He entreats God, and God delights in him, he sees God’s face with rejoicing, and God restores to him his righteousness.
[Job 33:27] That person sings to others, saying: ‘I have sinned and falsified what is right, but I was not punished according to what I deserved.
[Job 33:28] He redeemed my life from going down to the place of corruption, and my life sees the light!’
[Job 33:29] “Indeed, God does all these things, twice, three times, in his dealings with a person,
[Job 33:30] to turn back his life from the place of corruption, that he may be enlightened with the light of life.
[Job 33:31] Pay attention, Job – listen to me; be silent, and I will speak.
[Job 33:32] If you have any words, reply to me; speak, for I want to justify you.
[Job 33:33] If not, you listen to me; be silent, and I will teach you wisdom.”
