# Job 34

## Elihu Condemns Job's Three Friends
¶[Job 34:1] Elihu answered:

¶[Job 34:2] “Listen to my words, you wise men; hear me, you learned men.
[Job 34:3] For the ear assesses words as the mouth tastes food.
[Job 34:4] Let us evaluate for ourselves what is right; let us come to know among ourselves what is good.
[Job 34:5] For Job says, ‘I am innocent, but God turns away my right.
[Job 34:6] Concerning my right, should I lie? My wound is incurable, although I am without transgression.’
[Job 34:7] What man is like Job, who drinks derision like water!
[Job 34:8] He goes about in company with evildoers, he goes along with wicked men.
[Job 34:9] For he says, ‘It does not profit a man when he makes his delight with God.’
[Job 34:10] “Therefore, listen to me, you men of understanding. Far be it from God to do wickedness, from the Almighty to do evil.
[Job 34:11] For he repays a person for his work, and according to the conduct of a person, he causes the consequences to find him.
[Job 34:12] Indeed, in truth, God does not act wickedly, and the Almighty does not pervert justice.
[Job 34:13] Who entrusted to him the earth? And who put him over the whole world?
[Job 34:14] If God were to set his heart on it, and gather in his spirit and his breath,
[Job 34:15] all flesh would perish together and human beings would return to dust.
[Job 34:16] “If you have understanding, listen to this, hear what I have to say.
[Job 34:17] Do you really think that one who hates justice can govern? And will you declare guilty the supremely Righteous One,
[Job 34:18] who says to a king, ‘Worthless man’ and to nobles, ‘Wicked men,’
[Job 34:19] who shows no partiality to princes, and does not take note of the rich more than the poor, because all of them are the work of his hands?
[Job 34:20] In a moment they die, in the middle of the night, people are shaken and they pass away. The mighty are removed effortlessly.
[Job 34:21] For his eyes are on the ways of an individual, he observes all a person’s steps.
[Job 34:22] There is no darkness, and no deep darkness, where evildoers can hide themselves.
[Job 34:23] For he does not still consider a person, that he should come before God in judgment.
[Job 34:24] He shatters the great without inquiry, and sets up others in their place.
[Job 34:25] Therefore, he knows their deeds, he overthrows them in the night and they are crushed.
[Job 34:26] He strikes them for their wickedness, in a place where people can see,
[Job 34:27] because they have turned away from following him, and have not understood any of his ways,
[Job 34:28] so that they caused the cry of the poor to come before him, so that he hears the cry of the needy.
[Job 34:29] But if God is quiet, who can condemn him? If he hides his face, then who can see him? Yet he is over the individual and the nation alike,
[Job 34:30] so that the godless man should not rule, and not lay snares for the people.
[Job 34:31] “Has anyone said to God, ‘I have endured chastisement, but I will not act wrongly any more.
[Job 34:32] Teach me what I cannot see. If I have done evil, I will do so no more.’
[Job 34:33] Is it your opinion that God should recompense it, because you reject this? But you must choose, and not I, so tell us what you know.
[Job 34:34] Men of understanding say to me – any wise man listening to me says –
[Job 34:35] that Job speaks without knowledge and his words are without understanding.
[Job 34:36] But Job will be tested to the end, because his answers are like those of wicked men.
[Job 34:37] For he adds transgression to his sin; in our midst he claps his hands, and multiplies his words against God.”
