# Job 35

## Elihu Affirms God's Justice
¶[Job 35:1] Then Elihu answered:

¶[Job 35:2] “Do you think this to be just: when you say, ‘My right before God.’
[Job 35:3] But you say, ‘What will it profit you,’ and, ‘What do I gain by not sinning?’
[Job 35:4] I will reply to you, and to your friends with you.
[Job 35:5] Gaze at the heavens and see; consider the clouds, which are higher than you!
[Job 35:6] If you sin, how does it affect God? If your transgressions are many, what does it do to him?
[Job 35:7] If you are righteous, what do you give to God, or what does he receive from your hand?
[Job 35:8] Your wickedness affects only a person like yourself, and your righteousness only other people.
[Job 35:9] “People cry out because of the excess of oppression; they cry out for help because of the power of the mighty.
[Job 35:10] But no one says, ‘Where is God, my Creator, who gives songs in the night,
[Job 35:11] who teaches us more than the wild animals of the earth, and makes us wiser than the birds of the sky?’
[Job 35:12] Then they cry out – but he does not answer – because of the arrogance of the wicked.
[Job 35:13] Surely it is an empty cry – God does not hear it; the Almighty does not take notice of it.
[Job 35:14] How much less, then, when you say that you do not perceive him, that the case is before him and you are waiting for him!
[Job 35:15] And further, when you say that his anger does not punish, and that he does not know transgression!
[Job 35:16] So Job opens his mouth to no purpose; without knowledge he multiplies words.”
