# Job 36

## Elihu Exalts God's Greatness
¶[Job 36:1] Elihu said further:

¶[Job 36:2] “Be patient with me a little longer and I will instruct you, for I still have words to speak on God’s behalf.
[Job 36:3] With my knowledge I will speak comprehensively, and to my Creator I will ascribe righteousness.
[Job 36:4] For in truth, my words are not false; it is one complete in knowledge who is with you.
[Job 36:5] Indeed, God is mighty; and he does not despise people, he is mighty, and firm in his intent.
[Job 36:6] He does not allow the wicked to live, but he gives justice to the poor.
[Job 36:7] He does not take his eyes off the righteous; but with kings on the throne he seats the righteous and exalts them forever.
[Job 36:8] But if they are bound in chains, and held captive by the cords of affliction,
[Job 36:9] then he reveals to them what they have done, and their transgressions, that they were behaving proudly.
[Job 36:10] And he reveals this for correction, and says that they must turn from evil.
[Job 36:11] If they obey and serve him, they live out their days in prosperity and their years in pleasantness.
[Job 36:12] But if they refuse to listen, they pass over the river of death, and expire without knowledge.
[Job 36:13] The godless at heart nourish anger, they do not cry out even when he binds them.
[Job 36:14] They die in their youth, and their life ends among the male cultic prostitutes.
[Job 36:15] He delivers the afflicted by their afflictions, he reveals himself to them by their suffering.
[Job 36:16] And surely, he drew you from the mouth of distress, to a wide place, unrestricted, and to the comfort of your table filled with rich food.
[Job 36:17] But now you are preoccupied with the judgment due the wicked, judgment and justice take hold of you.
[Job 36:18] Be careful that no one entices you with riches; do not let a large bribe turn you aside.
[Job 36:19] Would your wealth sustain you, so that you would not be in distress, even all your mighty efforts?
[Job 36:20] Do not long for the cover of night to drag people away from their homes.
[Job 36:21] Take heed, do not turn to evil, for because of this you have been tested by affliction.
[Job 36:22] Indeed, God is exalted in his power; who is a teacher like him?
[Job 36:23] Who has prescribed his ways for him? Or said to him, ‘You have done what is wicked’?
[Job 36:24] Remember to extol his work, which people have praised in song.
[Job 36:25] All humanity has seen it; people gaze on it from afar.
[Job 36:26] “Yes, God is great – beyond our knowledge! The number of his years is unsearchable.
[Job 36:27] He draws up drops of water; they distill the rain into its mist,
[Job 36:28] which the clouds pour down and shower on humankind abundantly.
[Job 36:29] Who can understand the spreading of the clouds, the thunderings of his pavilion?
[Job 36:30] See how he scattered his lightning about him; he has covered the depths of the sea.
[Job 36:31] It is by these that he judges the nations and supplies food in abundance.
[Job 36:32] With his hands he covers the lightning, and directs it against its target.
[Job 36:33] His thunder announces the coming storm, the cattle also, concerning the storm’s approach.
