# Job 37

¶[Job 37:1] At this also my heart pounds and leaps from its place.
[Job 37:2] Listen carefully to the thunder of his voice, to the rumbling that proceeds from his mouth.
[Job 37:3] Under the whole heaven he lets it go, even his lightning to the far corners of the earth.
[Job 37:4] After that a voice roars; he thunders with an exalted voice, and he does not hold back his lightning bolts when his voice is heard.
[Job 37:5] God thunders with his voice in marvelous ways; he does great things beyond our understanding.
[Job 37:6] For to the snow he says, ‘Fall to earth,’ and to the torrential rains, ‘Pour down.’
[Job 37:7] He causes everyone to stop working, so that all people may know his work.
[Job 37:8] The wild animals go to their lairs, and in their dens they remain.
[Job 37:9] A tempest blows out from its chamber, icy cold from the driving winds.
[Job 37:10] The breath of God produces ice, and the breadth of the waters freeze solid.
[Job 37:11] He loads the clouds with moisture; he scatters his lightning through the clouds.
[Job 37:12] The clouds go round in circles, wheeling about according to his plans, to carry out all that he commands them over the face of the whole inhabited world.
[Job 37:13] Whether it is for punishment, or for his land, or for mercy, he causes it to find its mark.
[Job 37:14] “Pay attention to this, Job! Stand still and consider the wonders God works.
[Job 37:15] Do you know how God commands them, how he makes lightning flash in his storm cloud?
[Job 37:16] Do you know about the balancing of the clouds, that wondrous activity of him who is perfect in knowledge?
[Job 37:17] You, whose garments are hot when the earth is still because of the south wind,
[Job 37:18] will you, with him, spread out the clouds, solid as a mirror of molten metal?
[Job 37:19] Tell us what we should say to him. We cannot prepare a case because of the darkness.
[Job 37:20] Should he be informed that I want to speak? If a man speaks, surely he will be swallowed up!
[Job 37:21] But now, the sun cannot be looked at – it is bright in the skies – after a wind passed and swept the clouds away.
[Job 37:22] From the north he comes in golden splendor; around God is awesome majesty.
[Job 37:23] As for the Almighty, we cannot attain to him! He is great in power, but justice and abundant righteousness he does not oppress.
[Job 37:24] Therefore people fear him, for he does not regard all the wise in heart.”
