# Job 38

## God's Control of the Natural World
¶[Job 38:1] Then the Lord answered Job out of the whirlwind:

¶[Job 38:2] “Who is this who darkens counsel with words without knowledge?
[Job 38:3] Get ready for a difficult task like a man; I will question you and you will inform me!
[Job 38:4] “Where were you when I laid the foundation of the earth? Tell me, if you possess understanding!
[Job 38:5] Who set its measurements – if you know – or who stretched a measuring line across it?
[Job 38:6] On what were its bases set, or who laid its cornerstone –
[Job 38:7] when the morning stars sang in chorus, and all the sons of God shouted for joy?
[Job 38:8] “Who shut up the sea with doors when it burst forth, coming out of the womb,
[Job 38:9] when I made the storm clouds its garment, and thick darkness its swaddling band,
[Job 38:10] when I prescribed its limits, and set in place its bolts and doors,
[Job 38:11] when I said, ‘To here you may come and no farther, here your proud waves will be confined’?
[Job 38:12] Have you ever in your life commanded the morning, or made the dawn know its place,
[Job 38:13] that it might seize the corners of the earth, and shake the wicked out of it?
[Job 38:14] The earth takes shape like clay under a seal; its features are dyed like a garment.
[Job 38:15] Then from the wicked the light is withheld, and the arm raised in violence is broken.
[Job 38:16] Have you gone to the springs that fill the sea, or walked about in the recesses of the deep?
[Job 38:17] Have the gates of death been revealed to you? Have you seen the gates of deepest darkness?
[Job 38:18] Have you considered the vast expanses of the earth? Tell me, if you know it all!
[Job 38:19] “In what direction does light reside, and darkness, where is its place,
[Job 38:20] that you may take them to their borders and perceive the pathways to their homes?
[Job 38:21] You know, for you were born before them; and the number of your days is great!
[Job 38:22] Have you entered the storehouse of the snow, or seen the armory of the hail,
[Job 38:23] which I reserve for the time of trouble, for the day of war and battle?
[Job 38:24] In what direction is lightning dispersed, or the east winds scattered over the earth?
[Job 38:25] Who carves out a channel for the heavy rains, and a path for the rumble of thunder,
[Job 38:26] to cause it to rain on an uninhabited land, a wilderness where there are no human beings,
[Job 38:27] to satisfy a devastated and desolate land, and to cause it to sprout with vegetation?
[Job 38:28] Does the rain have a father, or who has fathered the drops of the dew?
[Job 38:29] From whose womb does the ice emerge, and the frost from the sky, who gives birth to it,
[Job 38:30] when the waters become hard like stone, when the surface of the deep is frozen solid?
[Job 38:31] Can you tie the bands of the Pleiades, or release the cords of Orion?
[Job 38:32] Can you lead out the constellations in their seasons, or guide the Bear with its cubs?
[Job 38:33] Do you know the laws of the heavens, or can you set up their rule over the earth?
[Job 38:34] Can you raise your voice to the clouds so that a flood of water covers you?
[Job 38:35] Can you send out lightning bolts, and they go? Will they say to you, ‘Here we are’?
[Job 38:36] Who has put wisdom in the heart, or has imparted understanding to the mind?
[Job 38:37] Who by wisdom can count the clouds, and who can tip over the water jars of heaven,
[Job 38:38] when the dust hardens into a mass, and the clumps of earth stick together?

## God's Creation of the Animal Kingdom
¶[Job 38:39] “Do you hunt prey for the lioness, and satisfy the appetite of the lions,
[Job 38:40] when they crouch in their dens, when they wait in ambush in the thicket?
[Job 38:41] Who prepares prey for the raven, when its young cry out to God and wander about for lack of food?
