# Job 39

¶[Job 39:1] “Are you acquainted with the way the mountain goats give birth? Do you watch as the wild deer give birth to their young?
[Job 39:2] Do you count the months they must fulfill, and do you know the time they give birth?
[Job 39:3] They crouch, they bear their young, they bring forth the offspring they have carried.
[Job 39:4] Their young grow strong, and grow up in the open; they go off, and do not return to them.
[Job 39:5] Who let the wild donkey go free? Who released the bonds of the donkey,
[Job 39:6] to whom I appointed the arid rift valley for its home, the salt wastes as its dwelling place?
[Job 39:7] It scorns the tumult in the town; it does not hear the shouts of a driver.
[Job 39:8] It ranges the hills as its pasture, and searches after every green plant.
[Job 39:9] Is the wild ox willing to be your servant? Will it spend the night at your feeding trough?
[Job 39:10] Can you bind the wild ox to a furrow with its rope, will it till the valleys, following after you?
[Job 39:11] Will you rely on it because its strength is great? Will you commit your labor to it?
[Job 39:12] Can you count on it to bring in your grain, and gather the grain to your threshing floor?
[Job 39:13] “The wings of the ostrich flap with joy, but are they the pinions and plumage of a stork?
[Job 39:14] For she leaves her eggs on the ground, and lets them be warmed on the soil.
[Job 39:15] She forgets that a foot might crush them, or that a wild animal might trample them.
[Job 39:16] She is harsh with her young, as if they were not hers; she is unconcerned about the uselessness of her labor.
[Job 39:17] For God deprived her of wisdom, and did not impart understanding to her.
[Job 39:18] But as soon as she springs up, she laughs at the horse and its rider.
[Job 39:19] “Do you give the horse its strength? Do you clothe its neck with a mane?
[Job 39:20] Do you make it leap like a locust? Its proud neighing is terrifying!
[Job 39:21] It paws the ground in the valley, exulting mightily, it goes out to meet the weapons.
[Job 39:22] It laughs at fear and is not dismayed; it does not shy away from the sword.
[Job 39:23] On it the quiver rattles; the lance and javelin flash.
[Job 39:24] In excitement and impatience it consumes the ground; it cannot stand still when the trumpet is blown.
[Job 39:25] At the sound of the trumpet, it says, ‘Aha!’ And from a distance it catches the scent of battle, the thunderous shouting of commanders, and the battle cries.
[Job 39:26] “Is it by your understanding that the hawk soars, and spreads its wings toward the south?
[Job 39:27] Is it at your command that the eagle soars, and builds its nest on high?
[Job 39:28] It lives on a rock and spends the night there, on a rocky crag and a fortress.
[Job 39:29] From there it spots its prey, its eyes gaze intently from a distance.
[Job 39:30] And its young ones devour the blood, and where the dead carcasses are, there it is.”
