# Job 41

## God's Mastery Over Leviathan
¶[Job 41:1] (40:25) “Can you pull in Leviathan with a hook, and tie down its tongue with a rope?
[Job 41:2] Can you put a cord through its nose, or pierce its jaw with a hook?
[Job 41:3] Will it make numerous supplications to you, will it speak to you with tender words?
[Job 41:4] Will it make a pact with you, so you could take it as your slave for life?
[Job 41:5] Can you play with it, like a bird, or tie it on a leash for your girls?
[Job 41:6] Will partners bargain for it? Will they divide it up among the merchants?
[Job 41:7] Can you fill its hide with harpoons or its head with fishing spears?
[Job 41:8] If you lay your hand on it, you will remember the fight. Do not do it again!
[Job 41:9] (41:1) See, his expectation is wrong, he is laid low even at the sight of it.
[Job 41:10] Is it not fierce when it is awakened? Who is he, then, who can stand before it?
[Job 41:11] (Who has confronted me that I should repay? Everything under heaven belongs to me!)
[Job 41:12] I will not keep silent about its limbs, and the extent of its might, and the grace of its arrangement.
[Job 41:13] Who can uncover its outer covering? Who can penetrate to the inside of its armor?
[Job 41:14] Who can open the doors of its mouth? Its teeth all around are fearsome.
[Job 41:15] Its back has rows of shields, shut up closely together as with a seal;
[Job 41:16] each one is so close to the next that no air can come between them.
[Job 41:17] They lock tightly together, one to the next; they cling together and cannot be separated.
[Job 41:18] Its snorting throws out flashes of light; its eyes are like the red glow of dawn.
[Job 41:19] Out of its mouth go flames, sparks of fire shoot forth!
[Job 41:20] Smoke streams from its nostrils as from a boiling pot over burning rushes.
[Job 41:21] Its breath sets coals ablaze and a flame shoots from its mouth.
[Job 41:22] Strength lodges in its neck, and despair runs before it.
[Job 41:23] The folds of its flesh are tightly joined; they are firm on it, immovable.
[Job 41:24] Its heart is hard as rock, hard as a lower millstone.
[Job 41:25] When it rises up, the mighty are terrified, at its thrashing about they withdraw.
[Job 41:26] Whoever strikes it with a sword will have no effect, nor with the spear, arrow, or dart.
[Job 41:27] It regards iron as straw and bronze as rotten wood.
[Job 41:28] Arrows do not make it flee; slingstones become like chaff to it.
[Job 41:29] A club is counted as a piece of straw; it laughs at the rattling of the lance.
[Job 41:30] Its underparts are the sharp points of potsherds, it leaves its mark in the mud like a threshing sledge.
[Job 41:31] It makes the deep boil like a cauldron and stirs up the sea like a pot of ointment,
[Job 41:32] It leaves a glistening wake behind it; one would think the deep had a head of white hair.
[Job 41:33] The likes of it is not on earth, a creature without fear.
[Job 41:34] It looks on every haughty being; it is king over all that are proud.”
