# 1 Chronicles 1

## The descendants of Adam through Seth
¶[1Chr 1:1] Adam, Seth, Enosh,
[1Chr 1:2] Kenan, Mahalalel, Jered,
[1Chr 1:3] Enoch, Methuselah, Lamech,
[1Chr 1:4] Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth.

## The descendants of Noah
¶[1Chr 1:5] The sons of Japheth: Gomer, Magog, Madai, Javan, Tubal, Meshech, and Tiras.
[1Chr 1:6] The sons of Gomer: Ashkenaz, Riphath, and Togarmah.
[1Chr 1:7] The sons of Javan: Elishah, Tarshish, the Kittites, and the Rodanites.

## The descendants of Ham
¶[1Chr 1:8] The sons of Ham: Cush, Mizraim, Put, and Canaan.
[1Chr 1:9] The sons of Cush: Seba, Havilah, Sabta, Raamah, and Sabteca. The sons of Raamah: Sheba and Dedan.
[1Chr 1:10] Cush was the father of Nimrod, who established himself as a mighty warrior on earth.
[1Chr 1:11] Mizraim was the father of the Ludites, Anamites, Lehabites, Naphtuhites,
[1Chr 1:12] Pathrusites, Casluhites (from whom the Philistines descended), and the Caphtorites.
[1Chr 1:13] Canaan was the father of Sidon – his firstborn – and Heth,
[1Chr 1:14] as well as the Jebusites, Amorites, Girgashites,
[1Chr 1:15] Hivites, Arkites, Sinites,
[1Chr 1:16] Arvadites, Zemarites, and Hamathites.

## The descendants of Japheth
¶[1Chr 1:17] The sons of Shem: Elam, Asshur, Arphaxad, Lud, and Aram. The sons of Aram: Uz, Hul, Gether, and Meshech.
[1Chr 1:18] Arphaxad was the father of Shelah, and Shelah was the father of Eber.
[1Chr 1:19] Two sons were born to Eber: the first was named Peleg, for during his lifetime the earth was divided; his brother’s name was Joktan.
[1Chr 1:20] Joktan was the father of Almodad, Sheleph, Hazarmaveth, Jerah,
[1Chr 1:21] Hadoram, Uzal, Diklah,
[1Chr 1:22] Ebal, Abimael, Sheba,
[1Chr 1:23] Ophir, Havilah, and Jobab. All these were the sons of Joktan.

## The descendants of Shem
¶[1Chr 1:24] Shem, Arphaxad, Shelah,
[1Chr 1:25] Eber, Peleg, Reu,
[1Chr 1:26] Serug, Nahor, Terah,
[1Chr 1:27] Abram (that is, Abraham).

## The descendants of Isaac
¶[1Chr 1:28] The sons of Abraham: Isaac and Ishmael.

## Descendants of Ishmael
¶[1Chr 1:29] These were their descendants: Ishmael’s firstborn son was Nebaioth; the others were Kedar, Adbeel, Mibsam,
[1Chr 1:30] Mishma, Dumah, Massa, Hadad, Tema,
[1Chr 1:31] Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah. These were the sons of Ishmael.

## Descendants of Keturah
¶[1Chr 1:32] The sons to whom Keturah, Abraham’s concubine, gave birth: Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Midian, Ishbak, Shuah. The sons of Jokshan: Sheba and Dedan.
[1Chr 1:33] The sons of Midian: Ephah, Epher, Hanoch, Abida, and Eldaah. All these were the sons of Keturah.

## Descendants of Esau
¶[1Chr 1:34] Abraham was the father of Isaac. The sons of Isaac: Esau and Israel.

¶[1Chr 1:35] The sons of Esau: Eliphaz, Reuel, Jeush, Jalam, and Korah.
[1Chr 1:36] The sons of Eliphaz: Teman, Omar, Zephi, Gatam, Kenaz, and (by Timna) Amalek.
[1Chr 1:37] The sons of Reuel: Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah.

¶[1Chr 1:38] The sons of Seir: Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah, Dishon, Ezer, and Dishan.
[1Chr 1:39] The sons of Lotan: Hori and Homam. (Timna was Lotan’s sister.)
[1Chr 1:40] The sons of Shobal: Alyan, Manahath, Ebal, Shephi, and Onam. The sons of Zibeon: Aiah and Anah.
[1Chr 1:41] The son of Anah: Dishon. The sons of Dishon: Hamran, Eshban, Ithran, and Keran.
[1Chr 1:42] The sons of Ezer: Bilhan, Zaavan, Jaakan. The sons of Dishan: Uz and Aran.

¶[1Chr 1:43] These were the kings who reigned in the land of Edom before any king ruled over the Israelites: Bela son of Beor; the name of his city was Dinhabah.
[1Chr 1:44] When Bela died, Jobab son of Zerah from Bozrah, succeeded him.
[1Chr 1:45] When Jobab died, Husham from the land of the Temanites succeeded him.
[1Chr 1:46] When Husham died, Hadad son of Bedad succeeded him. He struck down the Midianites in the plains of Moab; the name of his city was Avith.
[1Chr 1:47] When Hadad died, Samlah from Masrekah succeeded him.
[1Chr 1:48] When Samlah died, Shaul from Rehoboth on the River succeeded him.
[1Chr 1:49] When Shaul died, Baal-Hanan son of Achbor succeeded him.
[1Chr 1:50] When Baal-Hanan died, Hadad succeeded him; the name of his city was Pai. His wife was Mehetabel, daughter of Matred, daughter of Me-Zahab.
[1Chr 1:51] Hadad died. The tribal chiefs of Edom were: Timna, Alvah, Jetheth,
[1Chr 1:52] Oholibamah, Elah, Pinon,
[1Chr 1:53] Kenaz, Teman, Mibzar,
[1Chr 1:54] Magdiel, Iram. These were the tribal chiefs of Edom.
