# 1 Chronicles 2

## The twelve sons
¶[1Chr 2:1] These were the sons of Israel: Reuben, Simeon, Levi, and Judah; Issachar and Zebulun;
[1Chr 2:2] Dan, Joseph, and Benjamin; Naphtali, Gad, and Asher.

## Line of Er and Onan
¶[1Chr 2:3] The sons of Judah: Er, Onan, and Shelah. These three were born to him by Bathshua, a Canaanite woman. Er, Judah’s firstborn, displeased the Lord, so the Lord killed him.
[1Chr 2:4] Tamar, Judah’s daughter-in-law, bore to him Perez and Zerah. Judah had five sons in all.

¶[1Chr 2:5] The sons of Perez: Hezron and Hamul.
[1Chr 2:6] The sons of Zerah: Zimri, Ethan, Heman, Kalkol, Dara – five in all.
[1Chr 2:7] The son of Carmi: Achan, who brought the disaster on Israel when he stole what was devoted to God.
[1Chr 2:8] The son of Ethan: Azariah.

## Line of Hezron
¶[1Chr 2:9] The sons born to Hezron: Jerahmeel, Ram, and Caleb.
[1Chr 2:10] Ram was the father of Amminadab, and Amminadab was the father of Nahshon, the tribal chief of Judah.
[1Chr 2:11] Nahshon was the father of Salma, and Salma was the father of Boaz.
[1Chr 2:12] Boaz was the father of Obed, and Obed was the father of Jesse.
[1Chr 2:13] Jesse was the father of Eliab, his firstborn; Abinadab was born second, Shimea third,
[1Chr 2:14] Nethanel fourth, Raddai fifth,
[1Chr 2:15] Ozem sixth, David seventh.
[1Chr 2:16] Their sisters were Zeruiah and Abigail. Zeruiah’s three sons were Abshai, Joab, and Asahel.
[1Chr 2:17] Abigail bore Amasa, whose father was Jether the Ishmaelite.

¶[1Chr 2:18] Caleb son of Hezron fathered sons by his wife Azubah (also known as Jerioth). Her sons were Jesher, Shobab, and Ardon.
[1Chr 2:19] When Azubah died, Caleb married Ephrath, who bore him Hur.
[1Chr 2:20] Hur was the father of Uri, and Uri was the father of Bezalel.

¶[1Chr 2:21] Later Hezron slept with the daughter of Makir, the father of Gilead. (He had married her when he was sixty years old.) She bore him Segub.
[1Chr 2:22] Segub was the father of Jair, who owned twenty-three cities in the land of Gilead.
[1Chr 2:23] (Geshur and Aram captured the towns of Jair, along with Kenath and its sixty surrounding towns.) All these were descendants of Makir, the father of Gilead.
[1Chr 2:24] After Hezron’s death, Caleb slept with Ephrath, his father Hezron’s widow, and she bore to him Ashhur the father of Tekoa.

## Line of Jerahmeel
¶[1Chr 2:25] The sons of Jerahmeel, Hezron’s firstborn, were Ram, the firstborn, Bunah, Oren, Ozem, and Ahijah.
[1Chr 2:26] Jerahmeel had another wife named Atarah; she was Onam’s mother.
[1Chr 2:27] The sons of Ram, Jerahmeel’s firstborn, were Maaz, Jamin, and Eker.
[1Chr 2:28] The sons of Onam were Shammai and Jada. The sons of Shammai: Nadab and Abishur.
[1Chr 2:29] Abishur’s wife was Abihail, who bore him Ahban and Molid.
[1Chr 2:30] The sons of Nadab: Seled and Appaim. (Seled died without having sons.)
[1Chr 2:31] The son of Appaim: Ishi. The son of Ishi: Sheshan. The son of Sheshan: Ahlai.
[1Chr 2:32] The sons of Jada, Shammai’s brother: Jether and Jonathan. (Jether died without having sons.)
[1Chr 2:33] The sons of Jonathan: Peleth and Zaza. These were the descendants of Jerahmeel.
[1Chr 2:34] Sheshan had no sons, only daughters. Sheshan had an Egyptian servant named Jarha.
[1Chr 2:35] Sheshan gave his daughter to his servant Jarha as a wife; she bore him Attai.
[1Chr 2:36] Attai was the father of Nathan, and Nathan was the father of Zabad.
[1Chr 2:37] Zabad was the father of Ephlal, and Ephlal was the father of Obed.
[1Chr 2:38] Obed was the father of Jehu, and Jehu was the father of Azariah.
[1Chr 2:39] Azariah was the father of Helez, and Helez was the father of Eleasah.
[1Chr 2:40] Eleasah was the father of Sismai, and Sismai was the father of Shallum.
[1Chr 2:41] Shallum was the father of Jekamiah, and Jekamiah was the father of Elishama.

## Line of Caleb
¶[1Chr 2:42] The sons of Caleb, Jerahmeel’s brother: His firstborn Mesha, the father of Ziph, and his second son Mareshah, the father of Hebron.
[1Chr 2:43] The sons of Hebron: Korah, Tappuah, Rekem, and Shema.
[1Chr 2:44] Shema was the father of Raham, the father of Jorkeam. Rekem was the father of Shammai.
[1Chr 2:45] Shammai’s son was Maon, who was the father of Beth-Zur.
[1Chr 2:46] Caleb’s concubine Ephah bore Haran, Moza, and Gazez. Haran was the father of Gazez.
[1Chr 2:47] The sons of Jahdai: Regem, Jotham, Geshan, Pelet, Ephah, and Shaaph.
[1Chr 2:48] Caleb’s concubine Maacah bore Sheber and Tirhanah.
[1Chr 2:49] She also bore Shaaph the father of Madmannah and Sheva the father of Machbenah and Gibea. Caleb’s daughter was Achsah.

¶[1Chr 2:50] These were the descendants of Caleb. The sons of Hur, the firstborn of Ephrath: Shobal, the father of Kiriath Jearim,
[1Chr 2:51] Salma, the father of Bethlehem, Hareph, the father of Beth-Gader.
[1Chr 2:52] The sons of Shobal, the father of Kiriath Jearim, were Haroeh, half of the Manahathites,
[1Chr 2:53] the clans of Kiriath Jearim – the Ithrites, Puthites, Shumathites, and Mishraites. (The Zorathites and Eshtaolites descended from these groups.)
[1Chr 2:54] The sons of Salma: Bethlehem, the Netophathites, Atroth Beth-Joab, half the Manahathites, the Zorites,
[1Chr 2:55] and the clans of the scribes who lived in Jabez: the Tirathites, Shimeathites, and Sucathites. These are the Kenites who descended from Hammath, the father of Beth-Rechab.
