# 1 Chronicles 3

## Descendants of David
¶[1Chr 3:1] These were the sons of David who were born to him in Hebron: The firstborn was Amnon, whose mother was Ahinoam from Jezreel; the second was Daniel, whose mother was Abigail from Carmel;
[1Chr 3:2] the third was Absalom whose mother was Maacah, daughter of King Talmai of Geshur; the fourth was Adonijah, whose mother was Haggith;
[1Chr 3:3] the fifth was Shephatiah, whose mother was Abital; the sixth was Ithream, whose mother was Eglah, David’s wife.
[1Chr 3:4] These six were born to David in Hebron, where he ruled for seven years and six months. He ruled thirty-three years in Jerusalem.
[1Chr 3:5] These were the sons born to him in Jerusalem: Shimea, Shobab, Nathan, and Solomon – the mother of these four was Bathsheba the daughter of Ammiel.
[1Chr 3:6] The other nine were Ibhar, Elishua, Elpelet,
[1Chr 3:7] Nogah, Nepheg, Japhia,
[1Chr 3:8] Elishama, Eliada, and Eliphelet.
[1Chr 3:9] These were all the sons of David, not counting the sons of his concubines. Tamar was their sister.

¶[1Chr 3:10] Solomon’s son was Rehoboam, followed by Abijah his son, Asa his son, Jehoshaphat his son,
[1Chr 3:11] Joram his son, Ahaziah his son, Joash his son,
[1Chr 3:12] Amaziah his son, Azariah his son, Jotham his son,
[1Chr 3:13] Ahaz his son, Hezekiah his son, Manasseh his son,
[1Chr 3:14] Amon his son, Josiah his son.
[1Chr 3:15] The sons of Josiah: Johanan was the firstborn; Jehoiakim was born second; Zedekiah third; and Shallum fourth.
[1Chr 3:16] The sons of Jehoiakim: his son Jehoiachin and his son Zedekiah.
[1Chr 3:17] The sons of Jehoiachin the exile: Shealtiel his son,
[1Chr 3:18] Malkiram, Pedaiah, Shenazzar, Jekamiah, Hoshama, and Nedabiah.
[1Chr 3:19] The sons of Pedaiah: Zerubbabel and Shimei. The sons of Zerubbabel: Meshullam and Hananiah. Shelomith was their sister.
[1Chr 3:20] The five others were Hashubah, Ohel, Berechiah, Hasadiah, and Jushab-Hesed.
[1Chr 3:21] The descendants of Hananiah: Pelatiah, Jeshaiah, the sons of Rephaiah, of Arnan, of Obadiah, and of Shecaniah.
[1Chr 3:22] The descendants of Shecaniah: Shemaiah and his sons: Hattush, Igal, Bariah, Neariah, and Shaphat – six in all.
[1Chr 3:23] The sons of Neariah: Elioenai, Hizkiah, and Azrikam – three in all.
[1Chr 3:24] The sons of Elioenai: Hodaviah, Eliashib, Pelaiah, Akkub, Johanan, Delaiah, and Anani – seven in all.
