# 1 Chronicles 8

## Descendants of Benjamin Revisited
¶[1Chr 8:1] Benjamin was the father of Bela, his firstborn; Ashbel was born second, Aharah third,
[1Chr 8:2] Nohah fourth, and Rapha fifth.
[1Chr 8:3] Bela’s sons were Addar, Gera, Abihud,
[1Chr 8:4] Abishua, Naaman, Ahoah,
[1Chr 8:5] Gera, Shephuphan, and Huram.
[1Chr 8:6] These were the descendants of Ehud who were leaders of the families living in Geba who were forced to move to Manahath:
[1Chr 8:7] Naaman, Ahijah, and Gera, who moved them. Gera was the father of Uzzah and Ahihud.
[1Chr 8:8] Shaharaim fathered sons in Moab after he divorced his wives Hushim and Baara.
[1Chr 8:9] By his wife Hodesh he fathered Jobab, Zibia, Mesha, Malkam,
[1Chr 8:10] Jeuz, Sakia, and Mirmah. These were his sons; they were family leaders.
[1Chr 8:11] By Hushim he fathered Abitub and Elpaal.
[1Chr 8:12] The sons of Elpaal: Eber, Misham, Shemed (who built Ono and Lod, as well as its surrounding towns),
[1Chr 8:13] Beriah, and Shema. They were leaders of the families living in Aijalon and chased out the inhabitants of Gath.
[1Chr 8:14] Ahio, Shashak, Jeremoth,
[1Chr 8:15] Zebadiah, Arad, Eder,
[1Chr 8:16] Michael, Ishpah, and Joha were the sons of Beriah.
[1Chr 8:17] Zebadiah, Meshullam, Hizki, Heber,
[1Chr 8:18] Ishmerai, Izliah, and Jobab were the sons of Elpaal.
[1Chr 8:19] Jakim, Zikri, Zabdi,
[1Chr 8:20] Elienai, Zillethai, Eliel,
[1Chr 8:21] Adaiah, Beraiah, and Shimrath were the sons of Shimei.
[1Chr 8:22] Ishpan, Eber, Eliel,
[1Chr 8:23] Abdon, Zikri, Hanan,
[1Chr 8:24] Hananiah, Elam, Anthothijah,
[1Chr 8:25] Iphdeiah, and Penuel were the sons of Shashak.
[1Chr 8:26] Shamsherai, Shechariah, Athaliah,
[1Chr 8:27] Jaareshiah, Elijah, and Zikri were the sons of Jeroham.
[1Chr 8:28] These were the family leaders listed in the genealogical records; they lived in Jerusalem.

¶[1Chr 8:29] The father of Gibeon lived in Gibeon; his wife’s name was Maacah.
[1Chr 8:30] His firstborn son was Abdon, followed by Zur, Kish, Baal, Nadab,
[1Chr 8:31] Gedor, Ahio, Zeker, and Mikloth.
[1Chr 8:32] Mikloth was the father of Shimeah. They also lived near their relatives in Jerusalem.
[1Chr 8:33] Ner was the father of Kish, and Kish was the father of Saul. Saul was the father of Jonathan, Malki-Shua, Abinadab, and Eshbaal.
[1Chr 8:34] The son of Jonathan: Meribbaal. Meribbaal was the father of Micah.
[1Chr 8:35] The sons of Micah: Pithon, Melech, Tarea, and Ahaz.
[1Chr 8:36] Ahaz was the father of Jehoaddah, and Jehoaddah was the father of Alemeth, Azmaveth, and Zimri. Zimri was the father of Moza,
[1Chr 8:37] and Moza was the father of Binea. His son was Raphah, whose son was Eleasah, whose son was Azel.
[1Chr 8:38] Azel had six sons: Azrikam his firstborn, followed by Ishmael, Sheariah, Obadiah, and Hanan. All these were the sons of Azel.
[1Chr 8:39] The sons of his brother Eshek: Ulam was his firstborn, Jeush second, and Eliphelet third.
[1Chr 8:40] The sons of Ulam were warriors who were adept archers. They had many sons and grandsons, a total of 150. All these were the descendants of Benjamin.
