# 1 Chronicles 11

## David becomes king
¶[1Chr 11:1] All Israel joined David at Hebron and said, “Look, we are your very flesh and blood!
[1Chr 11:2] In the past, even when Saul was king, you were Israel’s commanding general. The Lord your God said to you, ‘You will shepherd my people Israel; you will rule over my people Israel.’”
[1Chr 11:3] When all the leaders of Israel came to the king at Hebron, David made a covenant with them in Hebron before the Lord. They anointed David king over Israel, in keeping with the Lord’s message that came through Samuel.

## David captures Jerusalem
¶[1Chr 11:4] David and the whole Israelite army advanced to Jerusalem (that is, Jebus). (The Jebusites, the land’s original inhabitants, lived there.)
[1Chr 11:5] The residents of Jebus said to David, “You cannot invade this place!” But David captured the fortress of Zion (that is, the City of David).
[1Chr 11:6] David said, “Whoever attacks the Jebusites first will become commanding general!” So Joab son of Zeruiah attacked first and became commander.
[1Chr 11:7] David lived in the fortress; for this reason it is called the City of David.
[1Chr 11:8] He built up the city around it, from the terrace to the surrounding walls; Joab restored the rest of the city.
[1Chr 11:9] David’s power steadily grew, for the Lord of Heaven’s Armies was with him.

## David's mighty men
¶[1Chr 11:10] These were the leaders of David’s warriors who, together with all Israel, stood courageously with him in his kingdom by installing him as king, in keeping with the Lord’s message concerning Israel.
[1Chr 11:11] This is the list of David’s warriors: Jashobeam, a Hacmonite, was head of the officers. He killed three hundred men with his spear in a single battle.
[1Chr 11:12] Next in command was Eleazar son of Dodo the Ahohite. He was one of the three elite warriors.
[1Chr 11:13] He was with David in Pas Dammim when the Philistines assembled there for battle. In an area of the field that was full of barley, the army retreated before the Philistines,
[1Chr 11:14] but then they made a stand in the middle of that area. They defended it and defeated the Philistines; the Lord gave them a great victory.

¶[1Chr 11:15] Three of the thirty leaders went down to David at the rocky cliff at the cave of Adullam, while a Philistine force was camped in the Valley of Rephaim.
[1Chr 11:16] David was in the stronghold at the time, while a Philistine garrison was in Bethlehem.
[1Chr 11:17] David was thirsty and said, “How I wish someone would give me some water to drink from the cistern in Bethlehem near the city gate!”
[1Chr 11:18] So the three elite warriors broke through the Philistine forces and drew some water from the cistern in Bethlehem near the city gate. They carried it back to David, but David refused to drink it. He poured it out as a drink offering to the Lord
[1Chr 11:19] and said, “God forbid that I should do this! Should I drink the blood of these men who risked their lives?” Because they risked their lives to bring it to him, he refused to drink it. Such were the exploits of the three elite warriors.

¶[1Chr 11:20] Abishai the brother of Joab was head of the three elite warriors. He killed three hundred men with his spear and gained fame along with the three elite warriors.
[1Chr 11:21] From the three he was given double honor and he became their officer, even though he was not one of them.

¶[1Chr 11:22] Benaiah son of Jehoiada was a brave warrior from Kabzeel who performed great exploits. He struck down the two sons of Ariel of Moab; he also went down and killed a lion inside a cistern on a snowy day.
[1Chr 11:23] He even killed an Egyptian who was seven and a half feet tall. The Egyptian had a spear in his hand as big as the crossbeam of a weaver’s loom; Benaiah attacked him with a club. He grabbed the spear out of the Egyptian’s hand and killed him with his own spear.
[1Chr 11:24] Such were the exploits of Benaiah son of Jehoiada, who gained fame along with the three elite warriors.
[1Chr 11:25] He received honor from the thirty warriors, though he was not one of the three elite warriors. David put him in charge of his bodyguard.

¶[1Chr 11:26] The mighty warriors were: Asahel the brother of Joab, Elhanan son of Dodo, from Bethlehem,
[1Chr 11:27] Shammoth the Harorite, Helez the Pelonite,
[1Chr 11:28] Ira son of Ikkesh the Tekoite, Abiezer the Anathothite,
[1Chr 11:29] Sibbekai the Hushathite, Ilai the Ahohite,
[1Chr 11:30] Maharai the Netophathite, Heled son of Baanah the Netophathite,
[1Chr 11:31] Ithai son of Ribai from Gibeah in Benjaminite territory, Benaiah the Pirathonite,
[1Chr 11:32] Hurai from the valleys of Gaash, Abiel the Arbathite,
[1Chr 11:33] Azmaveth the Baharumite, Eliahba the Shaalbonite,
[1Chr 11:34] the sons of Hashem the Gizonite, Jonathan son of Shageh the Hararite,
[1Chr 11:35] Ahiam son of Sakar the Hararite, Eliphal son of Ur,
[1Chr 11:36] Hepher the Mekerathite, Ahijah the Pelonite,
[1Chr 11:37] Hezro the Carmelite, Naarai son of Ezbai,
[1Chr 11:38] Joel the brother of Nathan, Mibhar son of Hagri,
[1Chr 11:39] Zelek the Ammonite, Naharai the Beerothite, the armor-bearer of Joab son of Zeruiah,
[1Chr 11:40] Ira the Ithrite, Gareb the Ithrite,
[1Chr 11:41] Uriah the Hittite, Zabad son of Achli,
[1Chr 11:42] Adina son of Shiza the Reubenite, leader of the Reubenites and the thirty warriors with him,
[1Chr 11:43] Hanan son of Maacah, Joshaphat the Mithnite,
[1Chr 11:44] Uzzia the Ashterathite, Shama and Jeiel, the sons of Hotham the Aroerite,
[1Chr 11:45] Jediael son of Shimri, and Joha his brother, the Tizite,
[1Chr 11:46] Eliel the Mahavite, and Jeribai and Joshaviah, the sons of Elnaam, and Ithmah the Moabite,
[1Chr 11:47] Eliel, and Obed, and Jaasiel the Mezobaite.
