# 1 Chronicles 14

¶[1Chr 14:1] King Hiram of Tyre sent messengers to David, along with cedar logs, stonemasons, and carpenters to build a palace for him.
[1Chr 14:2] David realized that the Lord had established him as king over Israel and that he had elevated his kingdom for the sake of his people Israel.

¶[1Chr 14:3] In Jerusalem David married more wives and fathered more sons and daughters.
[1Chr 14:4] These are the names of children born to him in Jerusalem: Shammua, Shobab, Nathan, Solomon,
[1Chr 14:5] Ibhar, Elishua, Elpelet,
[1Chr 14:6] Nogah, Nepheg, Japhia,
[1Chr 14:7] Elishama, Beeliada, and Eliphelet.

¶[1Chr 14:8] When the Philistines heard that David had been anointed king of all Israel, all the Philistines marched up to confront him. When David heard about it, he marched out against them.
[1Chr 14:9] Now the Philistines had come and raided the Valley of Rephaim.
[1Chr 14:10] David asked God, “Should I march up against the Philistines? Will you hand them over to me?” The Lord said to him, “March up! I will hand them over to you!”
[1Chr 14:11] So they marched against Baal Perazim and David defeated them there. David said, “Using me as his instrument, God has burst out against my enemies like water bursts out.” So that place is called Baal Perazim.
[1Chr 14:12] The Philistines left their idols there, so David ordered that they be burned.

¶[1Chr 14:13] The Philistines again raided the valley.
[1Chr 14:14] So David again asked God what he should do. This time God told him, “Don’t march up after them; circle around them and come against them in front of the trees.
[1Chr 14:15] When you hear the sound of marching in the tops of the trees, then attack. For at that moment God is going before you to strike down the army of the Philistines.”
[1Chr 14:16] David did just as God commanded him, and they struck down the Philistine army from Gibeon to Gezer.
[1Chr 14:17] So David became famous in all the lands; the Lord caused all the nations to fear him.
