# 1 Chronicles 18

## Conquests of neighboring nations
¶[1Chr 18:1] Later David defeated the Philistines and subdued them. He took Gath and its surrounding towns away from the Philistines.
[1Chr 18:2] He defeated the Moabites; the Moabites became David’s subjects and brought tribute.

¶[1Chr 18:3] David defeated King Hadadezer of Zobah as far as Hamath, when he went to extend his authority to the Euphrates River.
[1Chr 18:4] David seized from him 1,000 chariots, 7,000 charioteers, and 20,000 infantrymen . David cut the hamstrings of all but a hundred of Hadadezer’s chariot horses.

¶[1Chr 18:5] The Arameans of Damascus came to help King Hadadezer of Zobah, but David killed 22,000 of the Arameans.
[1Chr 18:6] David placed garrisons in the territory of the Arameans of Damascus; the Arameans became David’s subjects and brought tribute. The Lord protected David wherever he campaigned.
[1Chr 18:7] David took the golden shields which Hadadezer’s servants had carried and brought them to Jerusalem.
[1Chr 18:8] From Tibhath and Kun, Hadadezer’s cities, David took a great deal of bronze. (Solomon used it to make the big bronze basin called “The Sea,” the pillars, and other bronze items.)

¶[1Chr 18:9] When King Tou of Hamath heard that David had defeated the entire army of King Hadadezer of Zobah,
[1Chr 18:10] he sent his son Hadoram to King David to extend his best wishes and to pronounce a blessing on him for his victory over Hadadezer, for Tou had been at war with Hadadezer. He also sent various items made of gold, silver, and bronze.
[1Chr 18:11] King David dedicated these things to the Lord, along with the silver and gold which he had carried off from all the nations, including Edom, Moab, the Ammonites, the Philistines, and Amalek.

¶[1Chr 18:12] Abishai son of Zeruiah killed 18,000 Edomites in the Valley of Salt.
[1Chr 18:13] He placed garrisons in Edom, and all the Edomites became David’s subjects. The Lord protected David wherever he campaigned.

¶[1Chr 18:14] David reigned over all Israel; he guaranteed justice for all his people.
[1Chr 18:15] Joab son of Zeruiah was commanding general of the army; Jehoshaphat son of Ahilud was secretary;
[1Chr 18:16] Zadok son of Ahitub and Abimelech son of Abiathar were priests; Shavsha was scribe;
[1Chr 18:17] Benaiah son of Jehoiada supervised the Kerethites and Pelethites; and David’s sons were the king’s leading officials.
