# 1 Chronicles 23

## Organization of the Levites
¶[1Chr 23:1] When David was old and approaching the end of his life, he made his son Solomon king over Israel.
[1Chr 23:2] David assembled all the leaders of Israel, along with the priests and the Levites.
[1Chr 23:3] The Levites who were thirty years old and up were counted; there were 38,000 men.
[1Chr 23:4] David said, “Of these, 24,000 are to direct the work of the Lord’s temple; 6,000 are to be officials and judges;
[1Chr 23:5] 4,000 are to be gatekeepers; and 4,000 are to praise the Lord with the instruments I supplied for worship.”
[1Chr 23:6] David divided them into groups corresponding to the sons of Levi: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.

¶[1Chr 23:7] The Gershonites included Ladan and Shimei.
[1Chr 23:8] The sons of Ladan: Jehiel the oldest, Zetham, and Joel – three in all.
[1Chr 23:9] The sons of Shimei: Shelomoth, Haziel, and Haran – three in all. These were the leaders of the family of Ladan.
[1Chr 23:10] The sons of Shimei: Jahath, Zina, Jeush, and Beriah. These were Shimei’s sons – four in all.
[1Chr 23:11] Jahath was the oldest and Zizah the second oldest. Jeush and Beriah did not have many sons, so they were considered one family with one responsibility.

¶[1Chr 23:12] The sons of Kohath: Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel – four in all.
[1Chr 23:13] The sons of Amram: Aaron and Moses. Aaron and his descendants were chosen on a permanent basis to consecrate the most holy items, to offer sacrifices before the Lord, to serve him, and to praise his name.
[1Chr 23:14] The descendants of Moses the man of God were considered Levites.
[1Chr 23:15] The sons of Moses: Gershom and Eliezer.
[1Chr 23:16] The son of Gershom: Shebuel the oldest.
[1Chr 23:17] The son of Eliezer was Rehabiah, the oldest. Eliezer had no other sons, but Rehabiah had many descendants.
[1Chr 23:18] The son of Izhar: Shelomith the oldest.
[1Chr 23:19] The sons of Hebron: Jeriah the oldest, Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, and Jekameam the fourth.
[1Chr 23:20] The sons of Uzziel: Micah the oldest, and Isshiah the second.

¶[1Chr 23:21] The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. The sons of Mahli: Eleazar and Kish.
[1Chr 23:22] Eleazar died without having sons; he had only daughters. The sons of Kish, their cousins, married them.
[1Chr 23:23] The sons of Mushi: Mahli, Eder, and Jeremoth – three in all.

¶[1Chr 23:24] These were the descendants of Levi according to their families, that is, the leaders of families as counted and individually listed who carried out assigned tasks in the Lord’s temple and were twenty years old and up.
[1Chr 23:25] For David said, “The Lord God of Israel has given his people rest and has permanently settled in Jerusalem.
[1Chr 23:26] So the Levites no longer need to carry the tabernacle or any of the items used in its service.”
[1Chr 23:27] According to David’s final instructions, the Levites twenty years old and up were counted.
[1Chr 23:28] Their job was to help Aaron’s descendants in the service of the Lord’s temple. They were to take care of the courtyards, the rooms, ceremonial purification of all holy items, and other jobs related to the service of God’s temple.
[1Chr 23:29] They also took care of the bread that is displayed, the flour for offerings, the unleavened wafers, the round cakes, the mixing, and all the measuring.
[1Chr 23:30] They also stood in a designated place every morning and offered thanks and praise to the Lord. They also did this in the evening
[1Chr 23:31] and whenever burnt sacrifices were offered to the Lord on the Sabbath and at new moon festivals and assemblies. A designated number were to serve before the Lord regularly in accordance with regulations.
[1Chr 23:32] They were in charge of the meeting tent and the holy place, and helped their relatives, the descendants of Aaron, in the service of the Lord’s temple.
