# 1 Chronicles 24

## Organization of the priests
¶[1Chr 24:1] The divisions of Aaron’s descendants were as follows: The sons of Aaron: Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.
[1Chr 24:2] Nadab and Abihu died before their father did; they had no sons. Eleazar and Ithamar served as priests.
[1Chr 24:3] David, Zadok (a descendant of Eleazar), and Ahimelech (a descendant of Ithamar) divided them into groups to carry out their assigned responsibilities.
[1Chr 24:4] The descendants of Eleazar had more leaders than the descendants of Ithamar, so they divided them up accordingly; the descendants of Eleazar had sixteen leaders, while the descendants of Ithamar had eight.
[1Chr 24:5] They divided them by lots, for there were officials of the holy place and officials designated by God among the descendants of both Eleazar and Ithamar.
[1Chr 24:6] The scribe Shemaiah son of Nethanel, a Levite, wrote down their names before the king, the officials, Zadok the priest, Ahimelech son of Abiathar, and the leaders of the priestly and Levite families. One family was drawn by lot from Eleazar, and then the next from Ithamar.

¶[1Chr 24:7] The first lot went to Jehoiarib, the second to Jedaiah,
[1Chr 24:8] the third to Harim, the fourth to Seorim,
[1Chr 24:9] the fifth to Malkijah, the sixth to Mijamin,
[1Chr 24:10] the seventh to Hakkoz, the eighth to Abijah,
[1Chr 24:11] the ninth to Jeshua, the tenth to Shecaniah,
[1Chr 24:12] the eleventh to Eliashib, the twelfth to Jakim,
[1Chr 24:13] the thirteenth to Huppah, the fourteenth to Jeshebeab,
[1Chr 24:14] the fifteenth to Bilgah, the sixteenth to Immer,
[1Chr 24:15] the seventeenth to Hezir, the eighteenth to Happizzez,
[1Chr 24:16] the nineteenth to Pethahiah, the twentieth to Jehezkel,
[1Chr 24:17] the twenty-first to Jakin, the twenty-second to Gamul,
[1Chr 24:18] the twenty-third to Delaiah, the twenty-fourth to Maaziah.
[1Chr 24:19] This was the order in which they carried out their assigned responsibilities when they entered the Lord’s temple, according to the regulations given them by their ancestor Aaron, just as the Lord God of Israel had instructed him.

¶[1Chr 24:20] The rest of the Levites included: Shubael from the sons of Amram, Jehdeiah from the sons of Shubael,
[1Chr 24:21] the firstborn Isshiah from Rehabiah and the sons of Rehabiah,
[1Chr 24:22] Shelomoth from the Izharites, Jahath from the sons of Shelomoth.
[1Chr 24:23] The sons of Hebron: Jeriah, Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, and Jekameam the fourth.
[1Chr 24:24] The son of Uzziel: Micah; Shamir from the sons of Micah.
[1Chr 24:25] The brother of Micah: Isshiah. Zechariah from the sons of Isshiah.
[1Chr 24:26] The sons of Merari: Mahli and Mushi. The son of Jaaziah: Beno.
[1Chr 24:27] The sons of Merari, from Jaaziah: Beno, Shoham, Zaccur, and Ibri.
[1Chr 24:28] From Mahli: Eleazar, who had no sons.
[1Chr 24:29] From Kish: Jerahmeel.
[1Chr 24:30] The sons of Mushi: Mahli, Eder, and Jerimoth. These were the Levites, listed by their families.
[1Chr 24:31] Just like their relatives, the descendants of Aaron, they also cast lots before King David, Zadok, Ahimelech, the leaders of families, the priests, and the Levites. The families of the oldest son cast lots along with those of the youngest.
