# 1 Chronicles 25

## Temple musicians
¶[1Chr 25:1] David and the army officers selected some of the sons of Asaph, Heman, and Jeduthun to prophesy as they played stringed instruments and cymbals. The following men were assigned this responsibility:
[1Chr 25:2] From the sons of Asaph: Zaccur, Joseph, Nethaniah, and Asarelah. The sons of Asaph were supervised by Asaph, who prophesied under the king’s supervision.
[1Chr 25:3] From the sons of Jeduthun: Gedaliah, Zeri, Jeshaiah, Hashabiah, and Mattithiah – six in all, under supervision of their father Jeduthun, who prophesied as he played a harp, giving thanks and praise to the Lord.
[1Chr 25:4] From the sons of Heman: Bukkiah, Mattaniah, Uzziel, Shebuel, Jerimoth, Hananiah, Hanani, Eliathah, Giddalti, Romamti-Ezer, Joshbekashah, Mallothi, Hothir, and Mahazioth.
[1Chr 25:5] All these were the sons of Heman, the king’s prophet. God had promised him these sons in order to make him prestigious. God gave Heman fourteen sons and three daughters.
[1Chr 25:6] All of these were under the supervision of their fathers; they were musicians in the Lord’s temple, playing cymbals and stringed instruments as they served in God’s temple. Asaph, Jeduthun, and Heman were under the supervision of the king.
[1Chr 25:7] They and their relatives, all of them skilled and trained to make music to the Lord, numbered two hundred eighty-eight.
[1Chr 25:8] They cast lots to determine their responsibilities – oldest as well as youngest, teacher as well as student.

¶[1Chr 25:9] The first lot went to Asaph’s son Joseph and his relatives and sons – twelve in all, the second to Gedaliah and his relatives and sons – twelve in all,
[1Chr 25:10] the third to Zaccur and his sons and relatives – twelve in all,
[1Chr 25:11] the fourth to Izri and his sons and relatives – twelve in all,
[1Chr 25:12] the fifth to Nethaniah and his sons and relatives – twelve in all,
[1Chr 25:13] the sixth to Bukkiah and his sons and relatives – twelve in all,
[1Chr 25:14] the seventh to Jesharelah and his sons and relatives – twelve in all,
[1Chr 25:15] the eighth to Jeshaiah and his sons and relatives – twelve in all,
[1Chr 25:16] the ninth to Mattaniah and his sons and relatives – twelve in all,
[1Chr 25:17] the tenth to Shimei and his sons and relatives – twelve in all,
[1Chr 25:18] the eleventh to Azarel and his sons and relatives – twelve in all,
[1Chr 25:19] the twelfth to Hashabiah and his sons and relatives – twelve in all,
[1Chr 25:20] the thirteenth to Shubael and his sons and relatives – twelve in all,
[1Chr 25:21] the fourteenth to Mattithiah and his sons and relatives – twelve in all,
[1Chr 25:22] the fifteenth to Jerimoth and his sons and relatives – twelve in all,
[1Chr 25:23] the sixteenth to Hananiah and his sons and relatives – twelve in all,
[1Chr 25:24] the seventeenth to Joshbekashah and his sons and relatives – twelve in all,
[1Chr 25:25] the eighteenth to Hanani and his sons and relatives – twelve in all,
[1Chr 25:26] the nineteenth to Mallothi and his sons and relatives – twelve in all,
[1Chr 25:27] the twentieth to Eliathah and his sons and relatives – twelve in all,
[1Chr 25:28] the twenty-first to Hothir and his sons and relatives – twelve in all,
[1Chr 25:29] the twenty-second to Giddalti and his sons and relatives – twelve in all,
[1Chr 25:30] the twenty-third to Mahazioth and his sons and relatives – twelve in all,
[1Chr 25:31] the twenty-fourth to Romamti-Ezer and his sons and relatives – twelve in all.
