# Romans 9

## Israel's Privileges and Rejection
¶[Rom 9:1] I am telling the truth in Christ (I am not lying!), for my conscience assures me in the Holy Spirit –
[Rom 9:2] I have great sorrow and unceasing anguish in my heart.
[Rom 9:3] For I could wish that I myself were accursed – cut off from Christ – for the sake of my people, my fellow countrymen,
[Rom 9:4] who are Israelites. To them belong the adoption as sons, the glory, the covenants, the giving of the law, the temple worship, and the promises.
[Rom 9:5] To them belong the patriarchs, and from them, by human descent, came the Christ, who is God over all, blessed forever! Amen.

## God's Choice and Election
¶[Rom 9:6] It is not as though the word of God had failed. For not all those who are descended from Israel are truly Israel,
[Rom 9:7] nor are all the children Abraham’s true descendants; rather “through Isaac will your descendants be counted.”
[Rom 9:8] This means it is not the children of the flesh who are the children of God; rather, the children of promise are counted as descendants.
[Rom 9:9] For this is what the promise declared: “About a year from now I will return and Sarah will have a son.”
[Rom 9:10] Not only that, but when Rebekah had conceived children by one man, our ancestor Isaac –
[Rom 9:11] even before they were born or had done anything good or bad (so that God’s purpose in election would stand, not by works but by his calling) –
[Rom 9:12] it was said to her, “The older will serve the younger,”
[Rom 9:13] just as it is written: “Jacob I loved, but Esau I hated.”

## God's Mercy and Justice
¶[Rom 9:14] What shall we say then? Is there injustice with God? Absolutely not!
[Rom 9:15] For he says to Moses: “I will have mercy on whom I have mercy, and I will have compassion on whom I have compassion.”
[Rom 9:16] So then, it does not depend on human desire or exertion, but on God who shows mercy.
[Rom 9:17] For the scripture says to Pharaoh: “For this very purpose I have raised you up, that I may demonstrate my power in you, and that my name may be proclaimed in all the earth.”
[Rom 9:18] So then, God has mercy on whom he chooses to have mercy, and he hardens whom he chooses to harden.

¶[Rom 9:19] You will say to me then, “Why does he still find fault? For who has ever resisted his will?”
[Rom 9:20] But who indeed are you – a mere human being – to talk back to God? Does what is molded say to the molder, “Why have you made me like this?”
[Rom 9:21] Has the potter no right to make from the same lump of clay one vessel for special use and another for ordinary use?
[Rom 9:22] But what if God, willing to demonstrate his wrath and to make known his power, has endured with much patience the objects of wrath prepared for destruction?
[Rom 9:23] And what if he is willing to make known the wealth of his glory on the objects of mercy that he has prepared beforehand for glory –
[Rom 9:24] even us, whom he has called, not only from the Jews but also from the Gentiles?
[Rom 9:25] As he also says in Hosea: “I will call those who were not my people, ‘My people,’ and I will call her who was unloved, ‘My beloved.’”
[Rom 9:26] “And in the very place where it was said to them, ‘You are not my people,’ there they will be called ‘sons of the living God.’”

¶[Rom 9:27] And Isaiah cries out on behalf of Israel, “Though the number of the children of Israel are as the sand of the sea, only the remnant will be saved,
[Rom 9:28] for the Lord will execute his sentence on the earth completely and quickly.”
[Rom 9:29] Just as Isaiah predicted, “If the Lord of Heaven’s Armies had not left us descendants, we would have become like Sodom, and we would have resembled Gomorrah.”

## Israel's Pursuit of Righteousness by Works
¶[Rom 9:30] What shall we say then? – that the Gentiles who did not pursue righteousness obtained it, that is, a righteousness that is by faith,
[Rom 9:31] but Israel even though pursuing a law of righteousness did not attain it.
[Rom 9:32] Why not? Because they pursued it not by faith but (as if it were possible) by works. They stumbled over the stumbling stone,
[Rom 9:33] just as it is written, “Look, I am laying in Zion a stone that will cause people to stumble and a rock that will make them fall, yet the one who believes in him will not be put to shame.”
