# Romans 11

## God Has Not Rejected Israel
¶`Rom 11:1` So I ask, God has not rejected his people, has he? Absolutely not! For I too am an Israelite, a descendant of Abraham, from the tribe of Benjamin.
`Rom 11:2` God has not rejected his people whom he foreknew! Do you not know what the scripture says about Elijah, how he pleads with God against Israel?
`Rom 11:3` “Lord, they have killed your prophets, they have demolished your altars; I alone am left and they are seeking my life!”
`Rom 11:4` But what was the divine response to him? “I have kept for myself seven thousand people who have not bent the knee to Baal.”
`Rom 11:5` So in the same way at the present time there is a remnant chosen by grace.
`Rom 11:6` And if it is by grace, it is no longer by works, otherwise grace would no longer be grace.
`Rom 11:7` What then? Israel failed to obtain what it was diligently seeking, but the elect obtained it. The rest were hardened,
`Rom 11:8` as it is written, “God gave them a spirit of stupor, eyes that would not see and ears that would not hear, to this very day.”
`Rom 11:9` And David says, “Let their table become a snare and trap, a stumbling block and a retribution for them;
`Rom 11:10` let their eyes be darkened so that they may not see, and make their backs bend continually.”

## The Inclusion of Gentiles and Future Restoration
¶`Rom 11:11` I ask then, they did not stumble into an irrevocable fall, did they? Absolutely not! But by their transgression salvation has come to the Gentiles, to make Israel jealous.
`Rom 11:12` Now if their transgression means riches for the world and their defeat means riches for the Gentiles, how much more will their full restoration bring?
`Rom 11:13` Now I am speaking to you Gentiles. Seeing that I am an apostle to the Gentiles, I magnify my ministry,
`Rom 11:14` if somehow I could provoke my people to jealousy and save some of them.
`Rom 11:15` For if their rejection is the reconciliation of the world, what will their acceptance be but life from the dead?
`Rom 11:16` If the first portion of the dough offered is holy, then the whole batch is holy, and if the root is holy, so too are the branches.
`Rom 11:17` Now if some of the branches were broken off, and you, a wild olive shoot, were grafted in among them and participated in the richness of the olive root,
`Rom 11:18` do not boast over the branches. But if you boast, remember that you do not support the root, but the root supports you.
`Rom 11:19` Then you will say, “The branches were broken off so that I could be grafted in.”
`Rom 11:20` Granted! They were broken off because of their unbelief, but you stand by faith. Do not be arrogant, but fear!
`Rom 11:21` For if God did not spare the natural branches, perhaps he will not spare you.
`Rom 11:22` Notice therefore the kindness and harshness of God – harshness toward those who have fallen, but God’s kindness toward you, provided you continue in his kindness; otherwise you also will be cut off.
`Rom 11:23` And even they – if they do not continue in their unbelief – will be grafted in, for God is able to graft them in again.
`Rom 11:24` For if you were cut off from what is by nature a wild olive tree, and grafted, contrary to nature, into a cultivated olive tree, how much more will these natural branches be grafted back into their own olive tree?

## The Mystery of Israel's Restoration
¶`Rom 11:25` For I do not want you to be ignorant of this mystery, brothers and sisters, so that you may not be conceited: A partial hardening has happened to Israel until the full number of the Gentiles has come in.
`Rom 11:26` And so all Israel will be saved, as it is written: “The Deliverer will come out of Zion; he will remove ungodliness from Jacob.
`Rom 11:27` And this is my covenant with them, when I take away their sins.”

¶`Rom 11:28` In regard to the gospel they are enemies for your sake, but in regard to election they are dearly loved for the sake of the fathers.
`Rom 11:29` For the gifts and the call of God are irrevocable.
`Rom 11:30` Just as you were formerly disobedient to God, but have now received mercy due to their disobedience,
`Rom 11:31` so they too have now been disobedient in order that, by the mercy shown to you, they too may now receive mercy.
`Rom 11:32` For God has consigned all people to disobedience so that he may show mercy to them all.

## Praise to God's Wisdom and Knowledge
¶`Rom 11:33` Oh, the depth of the riches and wisdom and knowledge of God! How unsearchable are his judgments and how unfathomable his ways!
`Rom 11:34` For who has known the mind of the Lord, or who has been his counselor?
`Rom 11:35` Or who has first given to God, that God needs to repay him?
`Rom 11:36` For from him and through him and to him are all things. To him be glory forever! Amen.
