# Romans 13

## Submission to Governing Authorities
¶`Rom 13:1` Let every person be subject to the governing authorities. For there is no authority except by God’s appointment, and the authorities that exist have been instituted by God.
`Rom 13:2` So the person who resists such authority resists the ordinance of God, and those who resist will incur judgment
`Rom 13:3` (for rulers cause no fear for good conduct but for bad). Do you desire not to fear authority? Do good and you will receive its commendation
`Rom 13:4` because it is God’s servant for your well-being. But be afraid if you do wrong because government does not bear the sword for nothing. It is God’s servant to administer punishment on the person who does wrong.
`Rom 13:5` Therefore it is necessary to be in subjection, not only because of the wrath of the authorities but also because of your conscience.
`Rom 13:6` For this reason you also pay taxes, for the authorities are God’s servants devoted to governing.
`Rom 13:7` Pay everyone what is owed: taxes to whom taxes are due, revenue to whom revenue is due, respect to whom respect is due, honor to whom honor is due.

## Love Fulfills the Law
¶`Rom 13:8` Owe no one anything, except to love one another, for the one who loves his neighbor has fulfilled the law.
`Rom 13:9` For the commandments, “Do not commit adultery, do not murder, do not steal, do not covet,” (and if there is any other commandment) are summed up in this, “Love your neighbor as yourself.”
`Rom 13:10` Love does no wrong to a neighbor. Therefore love is the fulfillment of the law.

## The Urgency of Salvation
¶`Rom 13:11` And do this because we know the time, that it is already the hour for us to awake from sleep, for our salvation is now nearer than when we became believers.
`Rom 13:12` The night has advanced toward dawn; the day is near. So then we must lay aside the works of darkness, and put on the weapons of light.
`Rom 13:13` Let us live decently as in the daytime, not in carousing and drunkenness, not in sexual immorality and sensuality, not in discord and jealousy.
`Rom 13:14` Instead, put on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make no provision for the flesh to arouse its desires.
