# Acts 24

## Paul before Governor Felix
¶[Acts 24:1] After five days the high priest Ananias came down with some elders and an attorney named Tertullus, and they brought formal charges against Paul to the governor.
[Acts 24:2] When Paul had been summoned, Tertullus began to accuse him, saying, “We have experienced a lengthy time of peace through your rule, and reforms are being made in this nation through your foresight.
[Acts 24:3] Most excellent Felix, we acknowledge this everywhere and in every way with all gratitude.
[Acts 24:4] But so that I may not delay you any further, I beg you to hear us briefly with your customary graciousness.
[Acts 24:5] For we have found this man to be a troublemaker, one who stirs up riots among all the Jews throughout the world, and a ringleader of the sect of the Nazarenes.
[Acts 24:6] He even tried to desecrate the temple, so we arrested him.
[Acts 24:8] When you examine him yourself, you will be able to learn from him about all these things we are accusing him of doing.”
[Acts 24:9] The Jews also joined in the verbal attack, claiming that these things were true.

¶[Acts 24:10] When the governor gestured for him to speak, Paul replied, “Because I know that you have been a judge over this nation for many years, I confidently make my defense.
[Acts 24:11] As you can verify for yourself, not more than twelve days ago I went up to Jerusalem to worship.
[Acts 24:12] They did not find me arguing with anyone or stirring up a crowd in the temple courts or in the synagogues or throughout the city,
[Acts 24:13] nor can they prove to you the things they are accusing me of doing.
[Acts 24:14] But I confess this to you, that I worship the God of our ancestors according to the Way (which they call a sect), believing everything that is according to the law and that is written in the prophets.
[Acts 24:15] I have a hope in God (a hope that these men themselves accept too) that there is going to be a resurrection of both the righteous and the unrighteous.
[Acts 24:16] This is the reason I do my best to always have a clear conscience toward God and toward people.
[Acts 24:17] After several years I came to bring to my people gifts for the poor and to present offerings,
[Acts 24:18] which I was doing when they found me in the temple, ritually purified, without a crowd or a disturbance.
[Acts 24:19] But there are some Jews from the province of Asia who should be here before you and bring charges, if they have anything against me.
[Acts 24:20] Or these men here should tell what crime they found me guilty of when I stood before the council,
[Acts 24:21] other than this one thing I shouted out while I stood before them: ‘I am on trial before you today concerning the resurrection of the dead.’”

¶[Acts 24:22] Then Felix, who understood the facts concerning the Way more accurately, adjourned their hearing, saying, “When Lysias the commanding officer comes down, I will decide your case.”
[Acts 24:23] He ordered the centurion to guard Paul, but to let him have some freedom, and not to prevent any of his friends from meeting his needs.

¶[Acts 24:24] Some days later, when Felix arrived with his wife Drusilla, who was Jewish, he sent for Paul and heard him speak about faith in Christ Jesus.
[Acts 24:25] While Paul was discussing righteousness, self-control, and the coming judgment, Felix became frightened and said, “Go away for now, and when I have an opportunity, I will send for you.”
[Acts 24:26] At the same time he was also hoping that Paul would give him money, and for this reason he sent for Paul as often as possible and talked with him.
[Acts 24:27] After two years had passed, Porcius Festus succeeded Felix, and because he wanted to do the Jews a favor, Felix left Paul in prison.
