# 2 Chronicles 11

## Idolatry in Judah
¶[2Chr 11:1] When Rehoboam arrived in Jerusalem, he summoned 180,000 skilled warriors from Judah and Benjamin to attack Israel and restore the kingdom to Rehoboam.
[2Chr 11:2] But the Lord’s message came to the prophet Shemaiah,
[2Chr 11:3] “Say this to King Rehoboam son of Solomon of Judah and to all the Israelites in Judah and Benjamin,
[2Chr 11:4] ‘The Lord says this: “Do not attack and make war with your brothers. Each of you go home, for I have caused this to happen.”’” They obeyed the Lord and called off the attack against Jeroboam.

¶[2Chr 11:5] Rehoboam lived in Jerusalem; he built up these fortified cities throughout Judah:
[2Chr 11:6] Bethlehem, Etam, Tekoa,
[2Chr 11:7] Beth Zur, Soco, Adullam,
[2Chr 11:8] Gath, Mareshah, Ziph,
[2Chr 11:9] Adoraim, Lachish, Azekah,
[2Chr 11:10] Zorah, Aijalon, and Hebron. These were the fortified cities in Judah and Benjamin.
[2Chr 11:11] He fortified these cities and placed officers in them, as well as storehouses of food, olive oil, and wine.
[2Chr 11:12] In each city there were shields and spears; he strongly fortified them. Judah and Benjamin belonged to him.

¶[2Chr 11:13] The priests and Levites who lived throughout Israel supported him, no matter where they resided.
[2Chr 11:14] The Levites even left their pasturelands and their property behind and came to Judah and Jerusalem, for Jeroboam and his sons prohibited them from serving as the Lord’s priests.
[2Chr 11:15] Jeroboam appointed his own priests to serve at the worship centers and to lead in the worship of the goat idols and calf idols he had made.
[2Chr 11:16] Those among all the Israelite tribes who were determined to worship the Lord God of Israel followed them to Jerusalem to sacrifice to the Lord God of their ancestors.
[2Chr 11:17] They supported the kingdom of Judah and were loyal to Rehoboam son of Solomon for three years; they followed the edicts of David and Solomon for three years.

¶[2Chr 11:18] Rehoboam married Mahalath the daughter of David’s son Jerimoth and of Abihail, the daughter of Jesse’s son Eliab.
[2Chr 11:19] She bore him sons named Jeush, Shemariah, and Zaham.
[2Chr 11:20] He later married Maacah the daughter of Absalom. She bore to him Abijah, Attai, Ziza, and Shelomith.
[2Chr 11:21] Rehoboam loved Maacah daughter of Absalom more than his other wives and concubines. He had eighteen wives and sixty concubines; he fathered twenty-eight sons and sixty daughters.
[2Chr 11:22] Rehoboam appointed Abijah son of Maacah as the leader over his brothers, for he intended to name him his successor.
[2Chr 11:23] He wisely placed some of his many sons throughout the regions of Judah and Benjamin in the various fortified cities. He supplied them with abundant provisions and acquired many wives for them.
