# 2 Chronicles 28

## Ahaz
¶[2Chr 28:1] Ahaz was twenty years old when he began to reign, and he reigned for sixteen years in Jerusalem. He did not do what pleased the Lord, in contrast to his ancestor David.
[2Chr 28:2] He followed in the footsteps of the kings of Israel; he also made images of the Baals.
[2Chr 28:3] He offered sacrifices in the Valley of Ben Hinnom and passed his sons through the fire, a horrible sin practiced by the nations whom the Lord drove out before the Israelites.
[2Chr 28:4] He offered sacrifices and burned incense on the high places, on the hills, and under every green tree.

¶[2Chr 28:5] The Lord his God handed him over to the king of Syria. The Syrians defeated him and deported many captives to Damascus. He was also handed over to the king of Israel, who thoroughly defeated him.
[2Chr 28:6] In one day Pekah son of Remaliah killed 120,000 warriors in Judah, because they had abandoned the Lord God of their ancestors.
[2Chr 28:7] Zikri, an Ephraimite warrior, killed the king’s son Maaseiah, Azrikam, the supervisor of the palace, and Elkanah, the king’s second-in-command.
[2Chr 28:8] The Israelites seized from their brothers 200,000 wives, sons, and daughters. They also carried off a huge amount of plunder and took it back to Samaria.
[2Chr 28:9] Oded, a prophet of the Lord, was there. He went to meet the army as they arrived in Samaria and said to them: “Look, because the Lord God of your ancestors was angry with Judah he handed them over to you. You have killed them so mercilessly that God has taken notice.
[2Chr 28:10] And now you are planning to enslave the people of Judah and Jerusalem. Yet are you not also guilty before the Lord your God?
[2Chr 28:11] Now listen to me! Send back those you have seized from your brothers, for the Lord is very angry at you!”
[2Chr 28:12] So some of the Ephraimite family leaders, Azariah son of Jehochanan, Berechiah son of Meshillemoth, Jechizkiah son of Shallum, and Amasa son of Hadlai confronted those returning from the battle.
[2Chr 28:13] They said to them, “Don’t bring those captives here! Are you planning on making us even more sinful and guilty before the Lord? Our guilt is already great and the Lord is very angry at Israel.”
[2Chr 28:14] So the soldiers released the captives and the plunder before the officials and the entire assembly.
[2Chr 28:15] Men were assigned to take the prisoners and find clothes among the plunder for those who were naked. So they clothed them, supplied them with sandals, gave them food and drink, and provided them with oil to rub on their skin. They put the ones who couldn’t walk on donkeys. They brought them back to their brothers at Jericho, the city of date palm trees, and then returned to Samaria.

¶[2Chr 28:16] At that time King Ahaz asked the king of Assyria for help.
[2Chr 28:17] The Edomites had again invaded and defeated Judah and carried off captives.
[2Chr 28:18] The Philistines had raided the cities of Judah in the foothills and the Negev. They captured and settled in Beth Shemesh, Aijalon, Gederoth, Soco and its surrounding villages, Timnah and its surrounding villages, and Gimzo and its surrounding villages.
[2Chr 28:19] The Lord humiliated Judah because of King Ahaz of Israel, for he encouraged Judah to sin and was very unfaithful to the Lord.
[2Chr 28:20] King Tiglath-pileser of Assyria came, but he gave him more trouble than support.
[2Chr 28:21] Ahaz gathered riches from the Lord’s temple, the royal palace, and the officials and gave them to the king of Assyria, but that did not help.

¶[2Chr 28:22] During his time of trouble King Ahaz was even more unfaithful to the Lord.
[2Chr 28:23] He offered sacrifices to the gods of Damascus whom he thought had defeated him. He reasoned, “Since the gods of the kings of Syria helped them, I will sacrifice to them so they will help me.” But they caused him and all Israel to stumble.
[2Chr 28:24] Ahaz gathered the items in God’s temple and removed them. He shut the doors of the Lord’s temple and erected altars on every street corner in Jerusalem.
[2Chr 28:25] In every city throughout Judah he set up high places to offer sacrifices to other gods. He angered the Lord God of his ancestors.
[2Chr 28:26] The rest of the events of Ahaz’s reign, including his accomplishments from start to finish, are recorded in the Scroll of the Kings of Judah and Israel.
[2Chr 28:27] Ahaz passed away and was buried in the city of Jerusalem; they did not bring him to the tombs of the kings of Israel. His son Hezekiah replaced him as king.
