# 1 Timothy 2

¶[1Tim 2:1] First of all, then, I urge that requests, prayers, intercessions, and thanks be offered on behalf of all people,
[1Tim 2:2] even for kings and all who are in authority, that we may lead a peaceful and quiet life in all godliness and dignity.
[1Tim 2:3] Such prayer for all is good and welcomed before God our Savior,
[1Tim 2:4] since he wants all people to be saved and to come to a knowledge of the truth.
[1Tim 2:5] For there is one God and one intermediary between God and humanity, Christ Jesus, himself human,
[1Tim 2:6] who gave himself as a ransom for all, revealing God’s purpose at his appointed time.
[1Tim 2:7] For this I was appointed a preacher and apostle – I am telling the truth; I am not lying – and a teacher of the Gentiles in faith and truth.

¶[1Tim 2:8] So I want the men in every place to pray, lifting up holy hands without anger or dispute.
[1Tim 2:9] Likewise the women are to dress in suitable apparel, with modesty and self-control. Their adornment must not be with braided hair and gold or pearls or expensive clothing,
[1Tim 2:10] but with good deeds, as is proper for women who profess reverence for God.
[1Tim 2:11] A woman must learn quietly with all submissiveness.
[1Tim 2:12] But I do not allow a woman to teach or exercise authority over a man. She must remain quiet.
[1Tim 2:13] For Adam was formed first and then Eve.
[1Tim 2:14] And Adam was not deceived, but the woman, because she was fully deceived, fell into transgression.
[1Tim 2:15] But she will be delivered through childbearing, if she continues in faith and love and holiness with self-control.
