# 1 Timothy 4

## Warnings about Apostasy
¶[1Tim 4:1] Now the Spirit explicitly says that in the later times some will desert the faith and occupy themselves with deceiving spirits and demonic teachings,
[1Tim 4:2] influenced by the hypocrisy of liars whose consciences are seared.
[1Tim 4:3] They will prohibit marriage and require abstinence from foods that God created to be received with thanksgiving by those who believe and know the truth.
[1Tim 4:4] For every creation of God is good and no food is to be rejected if it is received with thanksgiving.
[1Tim 4:5] For it is sanctified by God’s word and by prayer.

## Instructions for a Godly Minister
¶[1Tim 4:6] By pointing out such things to the brothers and sisters, you will be a good servant of Christ Jesus, having nourished yourself on the words of the faith and of the good teaching that you have followed.
[1Tim 4:7] But reject those myths fit only for the godless and gullible, and train yourself for godliness.
[1Tim 4:8] For “physical exercise has some value, but godliness is valuable in every way. It holds promise for the present life and for the life to come.”
[1Tim 4:9] This saying is trustworthy and deserves full acceptance.
[1Tim 4:10] In fact this is why we work hard and struggle, because we have set our hope on the living God, who is the Savior of all people, especially of believers.

## Timothy's Personal Conduct
¶[1Tim 4:11] Command and teach these things.
[1Tim 4:12] Let no one look down on you because you are young, but set an example for the believers in your speech, conduct, love, faithfulness, and purity.
[1Tim 4:13] Until I come, give attention to the public reading of scripture, to exhortation, to teaching.
[1Tim 4:14] Do not neglect the spiritual gift you have, given to you and confirmed by prophetic words when the elders laid hands on you.
[1Tim 4:15] Take pains with these things; be absorbed in them, so that everyone will see your progress.
[1Tim 4:16] Be conscientious about how you live and what you teach. Persevere in this, because by doing so you will save both yourself and those who listen to you.
